BIRMINGHAM HERALD. I
l ■ ' T" - ■ ■ - ■■ ■ ' ■■ ■ -■
(volume 22. BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1897. NUMBER 352
A HAPPY, PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR.
A ■- . . . . - ... . . \ ■ .■ ~ . «l y# j-■' -n._'Xi.. • " g
Drink with Re
in Hand
THREE PEOPLE
One of Them, Miss Slack, a Young Lady
from this City.
HIS OTHER VICTIMS AGED PEOPLE
Wa3 Boarding with tho Family and Wanted
to Marry a Thirteen-Year-Old Daugh
ter-Angry Citizens Attempt to
Tiynch the Triple Murderer,
Atlanta, Ga., Dec. 31.—Edward C.
Flanagan, an employe o( the Standard
Oil company, attempted to exterminate
the Allen family at Popular Springs, De
Kalb county, tonight, and did kill three
members.
His victims were Dixon E. Allen and
wife, both more than 70 years old, and
Miss Ruth Slack.
Flanagan seems to have been in love
with Leila Allen, the eleven year old
granddaughter of Dixon Allen. The old
couple's married son, G. W. Allen, and
his wife and two children, lived with
them in a neat little cottage four miles
from the city limits. Flanagan had been
boarding with them for six months. His
actions today were not quite natural, but
did not cause any alarm. It was noticed
though that he was anxious to get the
members of the family to leave the house.
Late in the afternoon he returned and
when supper was announced, he ate with
the family. When he had finished he
asked Mrs. G. W. Allen to give him a
drink of water. She left the room to get
it. Her husband was standing by the
table talking to his father. Flanagan
went to his own room, and, returning in a
moment, thrust a pistol through the por
tiere close to the son's head and fired.
Allen dodged and the ball struck him in
the back of the head. He fell to the
floor. Flanagan stepped over his body
and knocked the lamp from the table
with his pistol. This left the room in
darkness. Old Mrs. Allen, Miss Slack,
who was a sister of the younger Mrs. Al
len, and the children, ran into another
room in terror. Flanagan clubbed the
elder Allen with his pistol and killed him
with a few blows. Then he strode quick
ly to the room where the women were
screaming and began firing on them.
Grandmother Allen was shot through the
body twice and killed. Miss Slack was
shot through the back and mortally
wounded. At this moment the daughter
in-law, who had gone for the water, re*
turned and rushed into the room where
she heard the firing. She found that Flan
agan was trying to kill Leila, her daugh
ter. She struck the pistol and then
clinched with the murderer. He strug
gled and she held to him until he dragged
her out doors.
Then she, by almost superhuman
strength, threw him to the ground. Flan
agan fought like a mad man and tried
his best to shoot her. She prevented
him from firing for a minute or more.
By this time her husband had recovered
consciousness and he ran out to his wife's
rescue. Together they were able to hold
Flanagan and disarm him. Mrs. Allen
•then called help, and when neighbors
rived Allen was holding the murderer
on the ground.
Flanagan was bound with ropes and
held until the sheriff arrived. In the
meantime a large crowd had assembled
and they talked of lynching Flanagan.
The sheriff did not wait to give them an
opportunity, but immediately hurried the
prisoner off and brought him to this city,
where he was placed in the county Jail.
Flanagan would not talk, except to say
(that he was drunk. He came to Atlanta
from Louisville, Ky„ last spring. He
was a carpenter by trade, but of late had
connection with the Standard Oil com
pany.
'Miss Slack, who died about midnight,
is from Birmingham. She was to be
married next week. G. W. Allen, who la
not dangerously wounded, is a contractor.
He thinks that Flanagan was in love
with his daughter, Leila, and wanted to
kill the entire family because he could
not marry the cihld.
ARE INDIGNANT AT WEYLER
Spanish Papers Loudly Demand
His Recall.
THE COMMODORE SAILS
With an Immense Amount of Munition of War
—Hon. H. D. Money Studying the
Situation—Weyler's Policy.
Madrid, Dec. 31.—The jfmparcial and the I
Heraldo today publish articles condemn
ing the military administration In Cuba
and pointing out that despite his oft-re
peated promises Capt.-Gen. Weyler has
practically accomplished very little In
the direction of suppressing the rebellion.
Bot'b papers demanded that Gen. Weyler
be recalled and that Gen. Azcarraga,
minister of war, be appointed in his
place. The article caused a great sensa
tion In the city and the government, fear
ing trouble would follow, ordered that
the issue of both papers be seized.
The Gazeta Ofleal will tomorrow pub
lish a number of decrees regarding the
administrative and other reforms to be
put Into effect In Porto Rico.
A preamble, written, by Prime Minister
Castillo, dealing with the colonial policy
of Spain, will accompany the decrees.
v, WEYLER'S POLICY. W
Undecided as to Whether He Will Allow
Sugar Cane Ground.
Havana, Deo. 31.—The Hon. H. D.
Money, a member at tbe committee ob
*
foreign affairs of the American house
of representatives, who Is now here
studying the Cuban question, declines to
make any statement regarding his pro
posed method of Inquiry Into the In
surgent’s side of the question. It Is
hardly believed probable that he will be
able to obtain a safe conduct that will
allow him to reach the rebel lines.
The correspondent of the Liberal of
Madrid has had an interview with Gen.
Weyler at the la'ter’s camp, near Can
delaria. W’hen questioned if he would
Issue a decree declaring that the prov
ince of l’inar del Rio had been pacified,
Gen. Weyler said he would not adopt
such a measure. Gen. Weyler added that
his modesty and prudence compelled him
to only dictate measures for the organi
sation of the forces remaining in the
province to pursue bandits. It was his
intetntlon, he declared, to send two-thirds
of his forces to the provinces of Ha
vana, Mantanzas and Santa Clara and
to strengthen the central trocha which
extends from Jat-uco to Moron. He would
also order the concentration in the cities
and towns of all the residents in the
province of Havana, as he had done in
Pinar del Rio. '
Regarding the sugar crop, Gen. Weyler
said he would decide according to cir
cumstances whether or not to allow the
planters to grind.
The captain-general said, in conclu
sion, that there are now only 500 rebels
In the province of Pinar del Rio, and that
they were divided Into two bands, com
manded by Ruls Rivera and Ducasse.
THE COMMODORE SAILS.
Loaded With an Enormous Amount of
Munition for Cubans.
Jacksonville, Fla., Dec. 31—The steam
er Commodore, commanded by Capt. Ed
ward Murphy, formerly of the steam
ship Laurada, was granted clearance
papers- today by the Inspector of cus
toms and left port with a cargo of arms
and ammunition for Clenfuegos, Cuba.
The arms were loaded openly at the rail
road wharf, and no attempt was made
to prevent anyone from seeing what was
going on. The cargo was shipped by
H. P. Fritot, of this city, and was con
signed to S. Cisneros, president of the Cu
ban republic.
Spanish Vice-Consul Potons refused to
vise the clearance papers on the ground
that arms could not be shipped to a
Cuban port without permission of the
governor-general. He filed a formal pro
test with the collector against the ves
sel being allowed to depart. The protest
was filed, and the vessel allowed to de
part, as clearance had been granted.
The Commodore carried a crew of
twenty-eight men, 20,000 cartridges, 175
rifles, 1,000 pounds of giant powder and,
other munitions of war, besides a quan-'
tity of medicines and' stores.
The Dauntless has not yet returned to
load with the cargo of munitions of war,
although permission has been granted
her to clear for Nuevitas, Cuba, with
arms and ammunition.
Nothing has been heard of her since she
left here Tuesday afternoon to go wreck
ing, as her owner says. The sudden de
parture of the cruiser Raleigh from
Key West at 1 o’clock this morning has
caused considerable uneasiness In Cu
ban circles for It 1b believed that she has
been ordered to stop the Dauntless and
Commodore and search them to ascertain
if they are violating the law by carrying
a body of men as well as a cargo of arms.
If the men are found on either steamer
the vessel will be seized and brought
back to this port.
The Three Friends returned to port to
day and is in charge of the collector of
customs. Her crew came ashore imme
diately and disappeared. None of them
would talk, but it was ascertained that
the story of the encounter between the
boat and a Spanish cruiser is true and
that the Three Friends did return the
Are of the coaster and cruiser. No dam
age was done to either the Spaniard or
the tug.
A NAVAL BATTLE
In Which the Spaniards Claim to Have
Gained a Victory.
Havana, Dec. 31.—Reports have been
received here that on December 14 the
Spanish gunboat Vasco Nunez Balboa
fired on a rebel stronghold at Maravi,
near Baracoa, In the province of Santiago
de Cuba. The rebels replied to the at
tack, and a rapid exchange of cannonad
ing ensued, but the rebels’ batteries were
finally silenced. The gunboat received
slight damage to her hull, boats and rig
ging from the enemy's shots and had
two gunners Injured.
Col. Cirujeda expresses his belief that
the rebel general, Silverio Sanchez, was
killed In the battle recently fought at
Cayorosa.
Official reports give details of two en
counters between the troops and parties
of rebels in the province of Mantanzas,
In which the rebels were defeated and
dispersed, with the loss of seventeen
killed and many wounded. The troops
had five men wounded.
TENNESSEE CBNTENIAL.
Now an Assured Fact, the Necessary
Sum Being Raised'.
Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 31.—Tennessee
has raised the $500,000 necessary to make
the govenmental appropriation recently
passed by congress available. When the
bill was signed by the President there
had been only $480,000 raised. Soliciting
committees went to work at once to raise
the amount to $500,000. The general
round-up of the committees occurred to
night at Watkins' hall, when It was seen
that several thousand dollars over the
necessary amount had been subscribed.
The occasion was made one of general
jollfleation, and enthusiastic speeches
were made by Gov. R. L. Taylor, Hon.
J. M. Dickinson, Hon. J. W. Baker and
others.
A COSTLY FIRE.
Raleigh, N. C., Dec. 31.—At 10:30 to
night fire broke out in the car and en
gine house of the Raleigh Street railway
and destroyed them all, along with nine
cars, five dynamos and four engines of
125 horse-power each, together with all
supplies. The loss Is $50,000, with only
$12,000 insurance. The electric company
also furnished light to many buildings.
Most of its stock is held by the General
Electric company, of Boston, of which
James H. Cutler Is representative. The
fire originated In the boiler or engine
room' and spread with wonderful rapid
ity. The buildings were of wood.
A SLIGHT COLLISION.
Charlotte, N. C., Dec. 31.—Information
comes here that there wgs g slight wreck
on the Carolina Central division of the ,
Seaboard Air-Line, near Hamlet, this
state, late last night. A freight train
broke in two, and the two sections came
together again with great force, telescop
ing two of the cars and delaying traffic
a short time. No one was hurt, and the
damage Is amalL .
AN ALABAMIAN KILLED
Charles W, Wilson, of Demopolis,
Shot to Death
BY AN ENRAGED HUSBAND
To Whose Wife Wilson Had Paid Entirely Too
Much Attention.
GEORGE A. WILKINS, OF SELMA, SUICIDES
Editor McCullagh, of the St. Louis Globe
Democrat, Does the Same—Brave Fire
man Falls to His Death-Oth
er Casualties Galore.
Waycross, Ga., Dec. 31.—(Special.)—
Charles W. Wilson was-killed this morn
ing by Warren H. Williams, and the lat
ter was adjudged guilty of murder by a
coroner’s jury.
The tragedy occurred this morning at
8 o’clock in the lobby of the Southern ho
tel. Pour shots were fired, two by Wilson
and two by Williams. Mr. JVilliams sur
rendered to the sheriff and to the cor
oner’s jury he made his statement. Mr.
Williams is manager of the hotel, having
come here two months ago from Gaines
ville, Ga., where he was manager of the
Arlington. He graduated from Emery
college and is proprietor of the Hartwell,
Ga., Sun. His health is delicate and he
Is apparently 30 years of age; he is well
connected In North Georgia. Mrs. Wil
liams, his young wife, is pretty and ac
complished. She arrived only a week or
two ago from Atlanta, where she was
ill two months from typhoid fever in St.
Joseph’s infirmary. Mrs. Williams has
a beautiful head of black hair and a
graceful figure.
Mr. Wilson was about 25, and a hand
some man. His father, Col. I. G. Wilson,
resides at Demopolis, Ala., and will ar
rive in the morning and take his son’s
remains home for interment. Mr. Wil
son was a nephew of J. C. S. Timberlake,
of Hotel St. Simon's Island fame, and
was prominent in society in Georgia and
Alabama. He was popular and a Ches
terfield in manner.
Mr. Wilson became a guest of the hotel
three days ago, and has since paid mark
ed attention to the pretty wife of his
host, Mr. W'illiams. Mr. Williams has
not been remanded to Jail, but is in cus
tody.
Williams made a statement before the
coroner's jury today in which he said
that Wilson had persisted in forcing his
attentions on Mrs. Williams, and last
night insulted her. Mr. and Mrs. Wil
liams decided that Wilson should be ask
ed this morning to leave the hotel. Wil
liams says he approached Wilson for this
purpose and the latter was insolent and
defiant. His conduct showed that he
knew before Williams spoke that he saw
that Williams had been informed of the
insult offered Mrs. Williams. Williams
says that after a few words Wilson drew
a pistol, intending to kill him. Williams
thereupon hurriedly drew his own
weapon and the fusilade followed. Wrll
liams adds that when he approached
Wilson his only object was to ask him
to leave the hotel, and that he had no
idea of bringing on a personal encoun
ter.
NEWSPAPER MAN DEAD.
Joe S. MeCullagh, Editor of the St. Louis
Globe-Democrat, Suicides.
St. Louis. Dec. 31.—Joseph S. McCul
lagh, editor of the Globe-Democrat, was
found dead on the pavement in the rear
of his residence, No. 3837 West Pine boule
vard, at 6:30 o’clock this morning. He
had evidently jumped from a window of
his bed room on the third floor of the
house some time between midnight and
daybreak and dashed his brains out on
the stone flagging of the yard. At 6:30
this morning one of the stable boys em
ployed by Mrs. Manien, a sister-in-law,
with whom MeCullagh lived, found the
body. The skull was battered in and
brains scattered about on the flagging.
MeCullagh was attired in his night cloth
ing. MeCullagh had been confined to his
rooms since Nov. 10, with acute asthma,
complicated with nervous depression, as
a result of his arduous labors in the re
cent election.
Dr. C. H. Hughes, his physician, said
this morning:
"Mr. Cullagh was tired of living and
killed himself. He gave no premonition
of suicide during his illness. I saw him
for a little while last evening. He said
he felt sleepy and gave me to understand
he wanted me to leave him alone. His
brain was affected, but his intellect was
all right. He suffered from profound
nervous exhaustion, complicated with a
recurring kidney trouble. The late cam
paign undermined his health. No writ
ings were found in Mr. Cullagh’s room
explaining his act or leaving instructions
for the arrangement of his affairs after
death.
Joseph MeCullagh was born in Dublin,
Ireland, in November, 1842, and was but
11 years of age when he came to this
country on a sailing ship, working his
passage. Arriving In Ntw York in 1853,
he was apprenticed to learn the printing
business in the office of the Freeman’s
Journal.
Five years later, in 1858, he came to St.
Louis and entered the office of the Chri-s^
tlan Advocate as a reporer. In 1850 he
began work as ai reporter on the Mis
souri Democrat. When the war broke
out he adted as correspondent for the
Cincinnati Commercial, and this work
gained him great reputatldn.' Later he
acted as Washlngtdp ^cdlTepDoadent for
that paper. In 1888 he became editor of
the Cincinnati Enquirer, and in 1870 he
went to Chicago and took elrarge of the
Republican of that city. The great fire
of the following year swept the Repub
lican out of existence, and Mr. MoCul
lagh assumed editorial management of
the Missouri jpefnocrat pf SL Louis. The
paper was latpr on.,consolidated with the
Globe-Demoorat, and Mr. -MoCullagh
continued In charge of the Globe-Demo
crat from that time to the present. He
never married.
GEO. A. WELKINS, tyF SEDMA.
Ends His Life With a Pistol at the
Chancel Rail.
Montgomery, Ala., Dec. A^-George A.
Wilkins, vice-president of ike Commer
cial hank, of Selma, which flit led yester
day, committed suicide' thig morning in
4 Vi ‘
St. Paul’s Episcopal church. He was
missed by friends last night, and a search
was made for him. About daylight they
want to the church and found It locked.
A window was raised and he was seen
standing in the chancel. As soon as he
st w his friends coming he put a pistol to
h^s. head and fired.
He was' a very honorable, high-toned
man, and a devout member of the church
and a leader in the church here. It Is
plain that the excitement leading up to
the bank failure deranged his mind. It
Is not believed that any dishonor rested
upon him in connection with the failure.
FIREMAN FALLS TO DEATH.
A Ladder Breaks Precipitating Four Fire
Fighters to the Ground.
Philadelphia, Dee. 31.—One fireman
was klHed and three Injured by the
breaking of a ladder at a fire early this
rnerning. The victims are: Killed:
Edward A. Dever, horseman, aged 25.
Injured:
George Lutz, hoseman, aged 36 years,
br, k contused and body burned.
Bethel Partridge, hoseman, aged 25,
hand lacerated.
Jame3 Bennett, badly bruised.
The Are was in a four-story building
Nu. 9 Straw'berry street. It started on
t'h<‘ third floor in the department occupied
by Lemlsh & Langener, manufacturers
of "'lathing. Six men were on the ladder,
two of whom escaped with slight injuries.
never was picked up unconscious. He
was taken to the Pennsylvania hospital
where he died a few minutes after being
admitted.
The fire was soon gotten under control
an-! the damage will not exceed $2,000.
l ever was one of the oldest men in
the fire department, having been ap
pointed in 1876. He leaves a widow and
several children.
MINE GAS EXPLODES.
Killing One Man and Seriously Injuring
Another—Disobeyed Orders.
Bay City, Mich., Dec. 31.—An explo
sion occurred today at the Monitor coal
mine, six miles from West Bay City. One
man named Edward Casper was Instant
ly killed. The top of his head was blown
off and his body badly mangled and
burned. He leaves a widow and two
children.
The names of the Injured are: ►
Mldhael Simm, leg broken, side Injured,
left shoulder and back bruised and
burned.
Edward Kelly, burned from head to
foot and his face filled with coal dust.
The men had gone Into a new entry
against orders, and as soon as they en
tered their lamps Ignited the gas with
wich the entry was filled. The miners
had'been ordered by the superintendent
to keep out of the entry until the gas
was removed.
BY THE STRYCHNINE ROUTE.
Asheville, N. C., Dec. 31—Last night
Miss Nellie Porter, of Baltimore, who has
been in Asheville for several months,
todl: an overdose of strychnine while la
boring under melancholia and died two
hour^ later.
COJLINTY TREASURER SUICIDES.
Austin, Tex., Dec. 31.—County Treasur
er A. J. Jernigan shortly after reaching
his office this morning shot himself
through the body, the ball just missing
the heart and he will die. He states that
he let a colored porter about the county
couit house have $4,500 of the county
funds to put into a scheme Ul dig for
Mexican gold, supposed to be buried in
the vicinity of this city. Two slick col
ored sharpers inveigled the porter into
the scheme, fleecing him out of $6,000 in
addition to the amout Jernigan let him
have. The scheme was exposed a few
days ago and the sharpers arrested, and
it preyed on the mind of Jernigan. He
stood high in this community.
ARRESTED FOR TRAIN ROBBERY.
Kansas City, Mo., Dec. 31.—John Ken
nedy was arrested here this morning by
Special Agent Byrne of the United States
Express company, of Buffalo, and Detec
tive Cain, of Chicago, charged with be
ing the leader of the gang of bandits who
held up and robbed a Chicago and Alton
train in Blue Cut, on the night of Dec.
23. Kennedy was “sweated" by officers
all day, but refused to give any informa
tion. The officers state the evidence
against him is conclusive. He has been
committed to jail.
A TERRIBLE SHOCK.
Camden, N. J., Dec. 31.—Anthony Para
dine, 33 years of age, an electric light in
spector, was shocked today while fixing
a light in Stockton, a suburb. He was
employed by the Camden Lighting and
Heating company, which furnishes light
to the place. The full charge of 2JIOO
volts passed through his body, killing
him Instantly. Paradlne wore rubber
gloves, and how he received the shock
Is a mystery.
MURDER OR LYNCHING, WHICH?
Raleigh, N. C., Dec. 31.—A lynching or
murder occurred on Christmas night,
near Gibson's station, In Richmond coun
ty. The man killed was Jim Green, col
ored, a new-comer In the neighborhood,
who was employed In a cotton seed oil
mill at Gibson. Nothing was known of
him. except that he was of bad repu
tation and had served In the peniten
tiary. Late Christmas night a number
of white men on horseback surrounded
Green's house and made him go with
them half a mile down the road, when
they drew revolvers and riddled him with
bullets. The lynchers were unmasked
and were strangers.
‘ AFTER A BIG PLUM.
Chicago, Dec. 31.—Congressman Robert
R. Hitt returned from Washington to
day preparatory to leaving for Spring
field Thursday next to open headquar
ters and engage In the contest for the
seat In the United States senate now held
by Gen. Palmer. The other avowed can
didates are Alderman Martin B. Mad
den, ex^Congressman William E. Mason,
and ex-Gov. John M. Hamilton, of Chi
cago, and Hon. Clark E. Carr, of Gales
burg, ex-minister to Denmark. It Is
said that Samuel W. Allerton, the mil
lionaire packer, will also enter the race.
THE BANK WINS.
, Dallas, Tex., Dec. 31.—The big law suit
grpwlife out of cattle and ranch transac
tions styled the National Exchange bank
oUDallas vs. W. F. Mitcfhell, et al., was
decided In the Fourteenth district court
today In the bank’s favor. The bank
sued for approximately 360,000 cash ad
vanced on cattle and ranch property lo
cated In Southwest Texas. .
___ QUIET IN MINNEAPOLIS.
Minneapolis, Dec. 31.—Excitement over
the recent bank failures in this city has
entirely subsldedand all is quiet again.
There were no runs of consequence on
any of the banks this morning. Daniel
Fish has been appointed receiver for the
Northern Trust company, and A. B.
Ddrellous for the Bankers' Exchange,
bojkdi of which suspended yesterday.
ANNUAL REVIEW OF TRADE
Bradstreet and Dur^F* *
Startling Situ^n
_v
DULLEST OF 4hF /'LL I
/
Is the Present Conditio/Affairs in the Bus
iness rid.
THE RECORD OF FAILURES COMPARED
Figures Vary, bu' tb- t' " ■'taee of Ia
orease Show- SOS
Out in U alt.'" ...rso
Stocks ol Prir. I/rmo; i.
New York, Dec. 31.—Br. Lai j
urday, Jan. 2, will say:
General trade has been1 rather r
quiet and this week proves one c \> t
dullest of the dull season which has fol
lowed the fortnight of revived demand
i early in November. The uneasiness last
week caused by northwestern bank fail
ures Is continued by similar embarrass
ments at Chicago and Minneapolis.
These bank failures seem to be ' > out
come of conditions originating in the
banks and not due to the situation of gen
eral trade.
Unseasonable weather, the making of
Inventories, and the customary absence
of demand In wholesale lines have com
bined to produce more than the usual
holiday dullness. More favorable re
ports Include heavy exports of flour and
general merchandise from Tacoma to
China and Japan, the receipts at Chicago
of a satisfactory amount of orders for
dry goods for spring delivery and an In
creased total volume of business in 1896
among St. Louis manufacturers and Job
bers and jobbers of dry goods, as com
pared with 1895.
Manufacturers of woolen goods are
buying raw material only to cover orders
received. Large stocks of unsold print
clot'hs continue to depress quotations and
merchants In leading staple lines at larg
er distributing centers do not antici
pate an early improvement In .business.
Prices of oats, petroleum, cotton and
print cloths are lower and buyers of west
ern and southern brands of pig Iron re
port a cut of 25 cents a ton. Prices are
unchanged and comparatively Arm for
flour, pork, lard, sugar, anthracite cr.d
and steel billets. Since the break
Iron and steel pi ices consumers appL
Inclined to await developments.
The list of business failures through
out the United States for the calendar
year 1896 is with one exception the long
est since records of this character have
been complied. It remains for the panic
year of 1893 to present a larger total and
for that year and for the year 1894, which
was also visited by financial disaster, to
furnish larger aggregates of liabilities of
those who failed in business.
The total number of failures during
1896 is 15,112, an Increase of 16 per cent,
compared with 1895, In which year busi
ness embarrassments Increased 2 per
cent., contrasted with the year before.
In 1894, which was marked by extreme
depression In commercial and Industrial
circles the total number of failures fell
oft sharply, fully 18 per cent, from the
record In 1893, when the aggregate was
15.560, the largest total ever reported for
a calendar' year. During 1896 the ag
gregate assets of those embarrassed in
business were nearly 60 per cent, of the
total liabilities, the significance of which
lies in its contrast with the record of a
year ago when the proportion of assets to
liabilities was 55 per cent., and to the ex
hibit for 1894, when the proportion was
63 per cent.
The extraordinary heavy total of busi
ness embarrassments in the pan'c year
1893 was almost paralleled in 1896, not
withstanding a falling off of nearly one
fifth in number in 1894. The $247,000,000
liabilities of those failing during the
past twelve months Is challenged only by
corresponding totals in 1894 and 1893, re
spectively $248,000,000 and $402,000,000. The
aggregate of $148,000,000 of assets is an
increase over the corresponding total
one year ago cf fully 7 per cent., is $14,
000,000 larger than the like total In 1894
and has been exceeded only by the total
assets of failing traders In the panic year
of 1893.
DUN'S REVIEW.
New York, Dec. 31.—R. G. Dun & Co.,
In their weekly review of trade Satur
day, January 2, will say:
There have been more commercial fail
ures in 3896 than in any previous year
except 1893, about 14,890, against 13,197
last year, with liabilities of about $225,
000.000, against $173,196,060 last year, an
Increase in number of about 12 per cent,
and In liabilities of 29 per cent.
The year closes with an epidemic of
failures, mainly at the west and in banks,
loan and trust companies, or concerns de
pendent on them. The action of clear
ing houses In various places Indicates
no want of confidence, and sevreal banks
which have failed Will be enabled to pay
In full, but disclosures of unsoundness
in a few widely known institutions, In the
abnormal state of popular feeling, after
an excited contest on monetary Issues,
has caused distrust and suspicion where
It is frequently undeserved. There has
been no monetary pressure to cause
trouble, nor have Important western pro
ducts declined in value. There has evi
dently been too liberal assistance given
by some fiduciary concerns to speculative
operations. No drain on eastern funds
has resulted since the first alarm at two
large failures, and the money then sent
has all returned. Failures often grow
more frequent. Failures often grow
approach.
In none, of the Industries has there been
activity the past week. Holiday dullness
has been Intensified by the failures amt
the efforts of great combinations to make
new arrangements. With Iron, coke,
wool, cotton and hides all somewhat low
er, there Is almost universal confidence
that business will soon become large and
safer than before for a long time. Cot
ton mills have enormous stocks of un
sold goods in some lines, the surplus of
print cloths being the largest ever known
and about a quarter of a year’s con
sumption. Wool sales decreased 24 per
-cent. In the first four months, and were
smaller than for five years; decreased 66
per cent. In the second four months,
when new wool was coming forward,
and were much the smallest aver known,
except In the panic of 1873; but enor- ]
moua sales made the aggregate during
the last four months nearly equal to that
of last year.
The volume of business, during tha
year 18% has varied remarkably. Pay
ments through the clearing house were
htlv larger In each of the first four
han In 1886, but 20 per cent.
l'-r ban In 1892. In the six. months,
v!.:y f i ! October Inclusive, payments
y month smaller than last year,
1C -nt. In September, and In that
n:...- ft Ud lu October about 24 per cent.
p' i v than In 18S2. In November a
fi.'vpi. mprovement over 1895 appeared,
decrease from 1892 was but 12
p< „ but in December payments were
9.8 p. i cent, smaller than last vear, and
20.8 per cent, smaller than in 1893.
Railroad earnings were slightly larger
than last year In each of the firs. «veo
months, and smaller each month than
in 1892. In August and the later month#
there has been a- decrease as great as
12 per cent. In November from 1895 and
16.2 per cent. In August from 1S92.
The exports from New York in Decem
ber were 5 per c&nt. larger and Imports
12 per cent, smaller than last year.
~ THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Dec. 31.—Rain and mud
n -ked the last day of the year here and
y mud larks prevailed at the race
urse, but as the large crowd present
named four favorites, the public made
money on the day.
First Race—Selling, seven furlongs.
Judith C., 100 (Cooley), 4 to 1. won; Over
ella, second; Trilby, third. Time, 1:31%.
Second Race—Six furlongs, 2-year-olds.
Donna Rita, 102 (Clay), 11 to 5, won; Fred
Graft, second; Lott, third. Time, 1:17%.
Third Race—Selling. six furlongs.
Rouble, 109 (C. Reiff). 8 to 0. won; The
Sct’lptor, second; Whiff, third. Time,
1:17%.
Fourth Race—Handicap, one mile.
Ramona, 107 (Scherrer), 2 to 1, won;
Bloomer, second; Viscount, third. Time,
1:45.
Fifth Race—Selling, seven furlongs.
Sky Blue, 104 (Songer), 5 to 2. won; Billy
Jordan, second; Little Tom, third. Time,
1 *33.
Sixth Race—Five furlongs, 2-year-olds.
Alvin W., 108 (Walker), 6 to 5, won;
Koenigin, second; lllia, third. Time,
1:04%. _
TODAY'S ENTRIES.
New Orleans, Dec. 31.—Following are
the entries for tomorrow:
First Rnce—Three-fourths mile, selling.
If, 93; Princess Rose, 96; Hippogrlff, 98;
Jamboree, 100; Robroy II., 102; Paskola,
102; Marquise, 102; R. Q. Ban, 103; Miss
Rowett, 103; Mollle B., 103; Sauteme, 104;
Pitfall, 105; Anna Mayes, 105; Lizltta,
107; Sir John, 109.
Second Race—Three-fourths mile. Jack
Hayes, 99; Jasper, 99; Prince Arthur, 99;
Henrlca, 102; Maxine Elliott, 102: Pat
Morrissey, 107; Hill Billy, 112; Alvin W„
112.
Third Race—One and one-quarter mile,
selling. Harry B„ 81; Candy, 81; New
house, 93; Chugnut, 93: Cannonade, 95;
Farmer Leigh. 97; Proverb. 98: Old Pugh,
98; Linnette, 101; Partner, 102; Paros, 102;
Pirate, 103; Cotton King, 105; Booze, 106.
Fourth Race—New Year’s handicap,
one and one-sixteenth mile. Fred Graft,
91; Sister Stella, 94; Glen Albyn, 96; Ely
ria, 1C3; Parmesan, 104: Scribe, 105; Cly
mena, 105; Roy H„ 106; Grayling, 110;
Anger, 113.
Fifth Race—Three-fourths mile, sell
ing. Bramblenet, 84; Oldham, 86; Ter
rault, 99; In Command, 101; Gluck, 102;
Flora Ballard, 102; Necedah, 104; Pear
son, 104; High Test, 110.
Sixth Race—Three-fourths mile, sell
ing. Princess Bonnie, 89; Rosny, 91;
Eleanor Me., 106; Never, 106; Alto June,
107; Laura Davis, 108; Loyal Prince, 108;
Renaud, 108.
NECROLOGICAL
FITZHUGH LEO FRANTZ.
Jackson, Miss.. Dec. 31.—Fitzhugh Leo
Frantz died at the residence of his broth
er, E. E. Frantz, city editor of the Clarion.
Ledger this afternoon at 6 o’clock. He
has be«n confined to his bed from typhoid
fever for five weeks. He was 22 years
old and was the second living son of thei
late A. J. Frantz, for more than a quar
ter of a century the editor of the Bran
don Republican, for many years the
leading paper of Mississippi. He was
highly esteemed by a large circle of
friends. He was a bright young mam
and all his habits were exemplary. He
had the happy faculty of making warm,
friends of all with whom he came In con
tact.
MARK HOYT.
New York, Dec. 31—Col. Mark Hoyt,
the well known leather merchant, died,
at his home In this city yesterday. He
was born in Stanford, Conn., on May 5,
1836. He and his older brothers, Wil
liam, Oliver and Joseph, became well
known as leather merchants in this city.
Col. Hoyt took an active part In organ
izing the United States Leather com
pany and was Its president at the time of
his death.
ILDEFONZO DIEZ.
New Orleans, Dec. 31.—Capt. Ildefonzo
Dlez, of the Spanish steamship Catalina,
now lying in this port, died on shipboard
this morning. He will be burled tomor
row.
CRUISERS FOR JAPAN.
Washington, Dec. 31.—Contracts were
signed today at the Japanese legation in
this city by Henry Scott, president oC
the Unkm Iron works, of San Francisco,
and Charles Cramp, of Cramp & Sons,
Philadelphia, for the construction of two
unarmored cruisers, sister ships of about
4,800 tons displacement, one to be built
by each contractor for the Japanese
government. They are to cost $1,500,000
each, to have a speed of twenty-two and
one-half knotB an hour under forced,
draught and to be completed in twenty
four months.
DOES THE BABY ACT.
Chicago, III., Dec. 31.—Counselman &
Day, of the big board of trade and stock
brokers' firms are made defendants in a
suit filed today by Hugh McFarlane, who
has speculated in -railroad and other
stocks through the firm and lost $52,704,
according to the declarations made ill
his bill. He claims ho paid part of his
losses in cash and gave a note for $10,000,
which is still held by the firm. He seta
up the law sgalnst the collection of gam
bling debts, and In addition to suing for
recovery of the note, asks for $90,000
damages, half of which goes to the coun
ty If he is awarded that amount.
AN IMMENSE GAIN.
Norfolk, Va., Dec. 31.—For the four
months ending today there were received
at this port 661,054 baleB of cotton. The
amount received in the corresponding
period last year was 184,822. This repre
sents an increase of over 300 per cent.,
and probably makes Norfolk the great*
eat cotton port In the world.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 22. BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 2, 1897. NUMBER 353
SPAIN BEGINS 10 WEAKEN
Porto Rico to Have Laws of
Reform.
CUBA PROMISED THE SAME
After Appealing to the Combined Powers and
Being Refused
SHE HAS NO OTHER ALTERNATIVE
Report that Fifty-one Filibusters on the
three Friends Had Drowned Denied—
Weyler Says Pinar del Rio Is Pac
ified, but Massing Troops There.
Washington, Jan. 1.—Senor De Lome,
the Spanish minister resident here, fur
nished the Southern Associated Press the
following copy of a telegram from For
eign Minister Tetuan:
In the council of war presided over to
day by her majesty, the queen regent, a
royal decree was signed which applies to
the island of Porto Rico, the laws of re
forms voted in the eortes on the 15th of
March, 1895.
The preamble to this decree Is of the
greatest importance because of the state
ments it contains regarding Cuba, It
begins by explaining the reasons why
the reforms are applied today and where
fore this has not been done before;
amongst other paragraphs it contains the
following, which owing to their import
ance, I copy in their entirety:
“In the actual circumstances the gov
ernment considers that the proper time
has arrived for giving to the world am
ple proof of its Him resolve to fulfill the
engagements voluntarily contracted by
the nation, by implanting and carrying
into effect in Porto Rico the reform of
the system of government and civil ad
ministration, voted by the eortes and
sanctioned by her majesty, and which,
conveniently enlarged and extended, will
be applied in due time to Cuba.
"In unfolding the bases of the reforms
with that scrupulous care which the com
plex nature of the case and its many and
varied problems demand, the undersigned
minister has been inspired with a sense
of the necessity of ample administrative
de-centralization, and has proceeded to
the utmost limit, which the actual law
allows, without diminution of the inher
ent sovereignty of the nation. At the
same time, true to the solemn promise
. made before parliament by its president,
the government proposes to give a more
ample scope to the reforms when, as a
herald at peace, the happy moment ar
rives for the definite application of the re
forms to both the Antilles. As soon as
possible, her majesty’s government will
hasten to apply to Cuba, not only the re
forms which from the ground work of the
law applied today to Porto Rico, but also
will extend to both provinces the reforms
which have been offered with the view
of conferring upon both Antilles an ad
ministrative and economic personality of
a local character; which shall facilitate
the complete intervention of the country
In its own affairs, maintaining at the
same time intact the right of sovereignty
and the condition necessary to the main
tenance of th£t right, as was stated in
the words her majesty deigned to address
to the eortes, by the advice of her respon
sible government, upon, the opening of
parliament.
“These amplified reforms can be partly
put Into practice by means of the power
possessed by the executive government
and partly will require the sanction of
• parliament. The government is confi
dent that it will not encounter insupera
ble obstacles to its rapid action in this
sense, looking to the patriotic uniformi
ty of opinion respecting the fundament
. ai ideas which underlie the application, of
the reforms.
“Briefly, the law of reforms voted by
the cortez and sanctioned by the crown,
which is today to be applied to Porto
Rico, will form tiie foundation stone of
the new regime; but a decree, an ac
count of w'hieh will be given to the cor
tez, will amplify to such an extent these
reforms that a genuine home administra
tion will be constituted in our Antillles,
in the first Instance for Cuba, but to be
extended to Porto Rico as soon and at
the same time as it may be possible to
apply it to the former island.
(Signed.) “TETUAN,
"Minister of Foreign Affairs.”
FIFTY-ONE DROWNED.
Filibustered On Board the Three Friends
Reported Drowned.
Madrid, Jan 1.—A special from Havana
to Imparoial says fifty-one men com
prising a filibustering expedition recently
landed upon Desert Key by the steamer
• Three Friends, have been drowned. The
men were hastily put ashore on a barren
island after the Three Friends had been
pursued by Spanish gun boats, with
which the filibustering- steamer had an
exchange of shots, and a cargo of arms
and ammunition, provisions, etc., on
board the steamer were also landed with
the men. Tho Three Friends being
closely pursued by Spanish war vessels,
was compelled to put the men ashore on
this barren Island, or take them back to
the United States, and It was in making
an attempt to leave the Island, the dis
patch says, that they were drowned. The
dispatch also says 360 rides, which the
filibustered had with them, were lost in
the sea.
SOUNDS RATHER FISHT.
Weyler Says Pinar Del Rio Is Free of
Bandits, But Masses Troops There.
Havana, Jan. 1.—A reporter of the Dl
ario De Da Marina has had an interview
with Capt.-Gen. Weyler in the Matataro
camp. Speaking of the situation in the
province of Pinar del Rio, Gen. Weyler
said that speaking from the standpoint
of strength and Importance, the insur
rection In that province had been crushed.
The few insurgents remaining were
obliged to hide like wolves In their caves.
Fevers and smallpox had thinned the
rebel ranks. His own column and those
of the other Spanish commanders had
overrun the base and Interior of the hills
and had met no rebels. The insurgents,
after the death of Macep, were without a
leader. Rivera, Maceo's successor, was
Unpopular among his men. Gen. Wey
ler adjudged that his statement would
be confirmed after Gens. Melgulzo and
Arolas had completed their operations,
which Included the sweeping of the prov
ince from west to east. Gens. Hernandez.
Velasco. Obregan. Bernal, Ruise, Fuentes
and Segura were now la the ceDter of the
hills. J'erhaps Gen. Arolas was also
there. Cnee th« Kubi hills were fortified,
a severe blow might be directed against
the rebels under Ducasse.
Gen. Weyler said in conclusion that he
would allow no houses to be built on the
outskirts of the towns, as were they con
structed they would serve mostly as ref
uges for bandits.
An odd feature of the above Interview
is that Gen*. Weyler while declaring that
Pinar del Rio is practically free of in
surgents, finds It necessary to have the
Rubi hills fortified before he will attempt
to strike a blow at the rebels under Du
casse.
THE RUMOR SCOUTED.
Island .Where the Filibusters Are Is
Not Far Away From Key West.
New York, Jan. 1.—Cubans in this city
scout the report of the drowning of the
members of the Three Friends expedi
tion. They note the fact that the news
comes by way of Madrid, though the
island is not far from Key West, and
such a disaster, most of a certainty, if
true, leached here.
Dr. Oostillo, of the Cuban junta, said:
‘‘The report is ridiculous. There is no
truth in it. It is a pure fabrication. We
know where our men are. They are all
right.” Beyond this the doctor would
say nothing.
It was learned here today that subse
quent to the landing of the expedition on
the key, two of the party took a small
sail boat and went to Key West. They
subsequently returned to the island, in
the same manner they had come. The
fact that they were able to make the
journey in a small boat was considered
sufficient evidence that it is not far dis
tant from Key West.
Gen. Palma was out of town today,
having gone to his home in Pleasant Val
ley.
DOUBT NO LONGER.
The Three Friend? Had a Large Body of
Men for Cuba On Board.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 1.—There is no
longer any doubt that the Three Friends
expedition was landed on a Florida key
after the vessel had been chased from
the Cuban coast by a Spanish patrol
boat.
A telegram from Miami says that the
Dauntless reported there last night and
went on to No Name key, where a large
body of men are supposed to be wrecked
and that two of the number are reported
to be dead. A telegram from Key West
fays that when the steamer City of Rich
mond passed No Name key, the Daunt
less was there taking on hoard a party
of men and a cargo.
The Three Friends is still in the cus
tody of the collector of customs. No le
gal proceedings have yet been instituted
against the vessel or crew.
A RUMOR EXPLODED.
Jacksonville, Jan. 1.—The story sent
from Madrid of the drowraing of fifty-one
men landed on a Florida key by the
steamer Three Friends, Is declared by the
Cubans here to be false. J. A. Huau,
agent of the junta, says if the story was
true he would have been so informed.
DISTRUST IN MADRID.
over the Waste of Funds In Cuba—Wey
ler to Be Recalled.
Madrid. Jan. 1.—The semi-official news
papers condemn the action of the gov
ernment in seizing the Heraldo and Im
parcial upon the ground that the articles
published by those papers, denouncing
the policy of Capt.-Gen. Wevler in Cuba,
had a tendency to create discontent
among the troops in Cuba and to encour
age American filibusters. The govern
ment will not permit the objectionable
articles to be transmitted by telegraph.
Public opinion is greatly excited over
reports that the Spanish troops in Cuba
are compelled to undergo extreme hard
ships through hunger and nakedness, and
that those who are confined in the hos
pitals by illness or because of wounds
are suffering from neglect and an in
sufficient supply of medicines.
As large sums of money have been
sent to Cuba from Spain for the purpose
of furnishing clothing, medicines, etc.,
to the troops, the question is asked where
has this money gone? '
El Dia aserts that a ministerial crisis
is probably a test of a result of change
of policy. It is rumored that the cabinet
has approved the proposal to recall Capt.
Gen. Weyler, but that Premier Canovas
has delayed action in the matter, giving
no reason for so doing.
All of the ministers met at the resi
dence of Premier Canovas last evening
and drunk to a toast expressing hope for
the speedy conclusion of peace In the dis
turbed colonies.
OFF TO CUBA.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 1.—The filibus
tering steamer Commodore left Jackson
ville this morning with a cargo of arms
and ammunition. Three miles below the
city she stuck in the sand, and the rev
enue cutter Boutwell, passing down the
river, pulled her off and escorted her
safely across the bar.
AFTER THE PAPERS.
London, Jan. 1.—The Madrid correspon
dent of the Standard telegraphs that the
government intends to prosecute several
newspapers for imitating the Imparcial
and Heraldo, which were seized yester
day for condemning the military adminis
tration in Cuba and demanding Gen.
Weyler’s recall The government is de
termined to suppress the press campaign
against the cabinet s policy in Cuba, but
notwithstanding this fact the opposition
has decided that it will stir up the cortez
on the Cuban question, when the session
opens.
INGLESIDE RESULTS.
Ingleside Track, San Francisco, Cal.,
Jan. 1.—Weathen warm, track slow.
Twelve thousand people saw the races.
Lucky Dog captured the Shreve eup in
romping fashion, stepping the first half
in 4814 seconds. Five of the six favorites
won. ^
First Race—Six furlongs. Libertine, 112
(Macklin), even, won; Yankee Doodle sec
ond, Lady Diamond third. Time, 1:16%.
Second Race—One mile . Perseus, 108
(Sloan), 9 to 10, won; Peter the Second,
second; Earl Cochran third. Time, 1:45.
Third Race—Six furlongs, selling. Moy
lan, 103 (Murphy), 4 to 5, won; Arapahoe
second, Petrarch third. Time, 1:17.
Fourth Race—The Shreve cup, one
mile. LuckyUog, 102 (Martin), 4 to 1, won;
coupled with St. Lee second, Acquinas
third. Time, 1:43.
Fifth Race—Seven furlongs, selling.
Grey Hurst. 105 (Slaughter), 7 to 5, won;
Gecrge Palmer second, Arrezzo third.
Time, 1:31%.
Sixth Race—Mile and one-eighth. Red
Glen, 106 (Sloan), 1 to *, won: Little Crip
ple second, (Minnie Cee third. Time,
1:59%.
AN IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Jan. 1.—At the lay
ing of the corner stone of the auditorium,
Chattanooga’s first public assembly halt,
Congressman McMillln, of the Fourth
Tennessee district, delivered the prln
qipal address. The ceremonies were in
charge of the Masons, although numer
ous secret socitles sent delegations. The
audlenee chamber of the new building
will seat 5,000 people.
THOUSANDS JY HOMAGE
The White House New Year’s
Reception.
WAS GORGEOUS AND GRAND
Ambassadors, Ministers, United States Officials
and Private Citizens in Line.
i
A CHINESE LADY AN ATTRACTION
Tropical Plants, Creepers and Flowers
Adorn the Public Reception Rooms
in Lavish Abundance — Who
Assisted at the Function,
Washington, D. C., Jan. 1.—The annual
New Year’s reception at the white house
took place today according to a long es
tablished custom. It constitutes the
yearly ordeal of the President and the
mistress of the white house, for they
must shake hands with several thous
and of their fellow citizens and a large
number of distinguished foreigners.
They bore their part heroically, how
ever, and looked as fresh at the ending
as they did at the beginning.
As on last New Year's day the crowd
that participated in and witnessed the
reception was very large. It was the last
function of the sort in which Mr. and
Mrs. Cleveland will figure as the prin
cipal characters, and this may have been
responsible in part for the throng that
paraded the corridors and apartments
during the time set apart for the recep
tion. The Interior of the mansion had
been lavishly decorated for the occasion.
A suggestion of the tropics was given
by a survey of the decorative arrange
ments. In the dainty oval-shaped blue
room, the official chamber of the white
house, with its delicate tapestried walls,
the artistic effect was well carried out.
It was in this apartment that the Presi
dent, Mrs. Cleveland and the receiving
party sttood. Soft-hued globes tempered
the gleam of electric light that filled the
room. The two mantles were banked in
solid masses of cut flowers—roses of
many varieties, and the rarest of other
blooms that the conservatories of the
mansion could give. Both mirrors were
draped in smllax, while the scintillating
pendants of the central chandllier were
profusely entwined with delicate creeper.
In each of the three windows was a state
ly palm—one an ereca, and the others
of the seafortia variety—while smaller
palms were banked around them, togeth
er with azaleas and ferns. In the fire
places were ferns galore and the decora
tion was completed by fringes of ivy
leaves around the doors and cornices.
The red room held a profusion of tall
rubber plants and palms. Jardinieres of
greenish tinge holding growing plants
composted well with the permanent hang
ings of the green room. In the broad
corridor leading from the east room
past the reception chambers to the priv
ate staircase at the western end a few
rubber trees and palms sufficed for dec
orative purposes, and all the space that
could be obtained was necessary to ac
commodate the constantly moving
throng.
Those who paid their respects to the
President and Mrs. Cleveland passed out
of the receiving chamber into the green
room, and thence into the east room,
the scene of so many historical occur
rences. Six hundred people is the or
dinary capacity of this compartment.
Today it was filled to an uncomfortable
degree with foreign envoys, officers of
the army and navy, high Judicial func
tionaries, senators, representatives, and
many civilians with a large number of
ladies. They were not so crowded, how
ever, as to be unable to see and appre
ciate the floral beauty displayed.
As in every other part of the interior
the east room had its chandeliers and
cornices twined with smllax. Trailing
asparagus also formed a graceful drap
ery. The white Jardinieres on all the
mantels held Chinese primroses, rubber
plants and clnerias. Date and cocoanut
palms spread their foliage 'high over the
heads of the promenading guests. The
broad and high east window was a mass
of domesetta palms and grouped about
the bottom of these were ferns a plenty.
The mirrors, the embrasures, the fire
places were all suitably arranged.
Eleven o’clock was the hour set for the
beginning of the reception. Before that
time members of the diplomatic corps,
ambassadors, ministers, attaches and
their wives and daughters had begun to
arrive and were ushered into the red
room where they awaited the signal to
pass along the line. Out in the public
lobby the United States Marine band
under the leadership of Professor Fan
cuilli waited the signal to play. Sudden
ly Fancuilli waved his baton and the va
rious instruments burst forth into the
well known air of "Hail To the Chief.”
Down the private staircase came the
President, Mrs. Cleveland, the members
of the cabinet and their ladies led by
Col. John M. Wilson, United States army,
superintendent of public buildings and
grounds and master of ceremonies.
Mr. and Mrs. Cleveland, Vice-President
and Mrs. Stevenson, Secretary and Mrs.
Olney, Secretary and Mrs. Carlisle, At
torney-General and Mrs. Harmon, Post
master-General and Mrs. Wilson, Secre
tary and Miss Herbert, Secretary and
Mrs. Lamont, Secretary and Miss Mor
ton and Secretary and Mrs. Francis, an
imposing procession, passed along the
corridor to the blue room and took their
places, the President and Mrs. Cleveland
at one end with Secretary Olney and Col.
Wilson at their right, and the ladies
forming a line across the apartment. The
cabinet officers modestly dropped to the
rear and entered into conversation with
some of the ladles, who composed that
contingent comnVonly designated "behind
the line."
The ladles behind the line were: Mrs
Elkins, wife of Senator Elkins; Mrs
Gear, wifje of Senator Gear; Mrs. Gordon,
wife of Senator Gordon; Mrs. Halo, wife
of Senator Hale; Mrs. Lodge, wife of
Senator Lodge; Mrs. Reed, wife of Speak
er Reed; Mrs. Franklin Bartlett, of New
York; Mrs. Owen, Mrs. Draper, Mrs.
Harrison, Mrs, McCormick. Miss Simp
kins, Miss Turner, Mrs. Wadsworth, Mrs.
Washington, Mrs. Claude M. Johnson,
Mrs. Thurber, wife of Private Secretary
Thurber; Mrs. Dunlap, the Misses Ham
lin, Mrs. Conrad, wife of the solicitor-gen
eral; Jjit; ptetflntfdn, Mrsj. Eckels, wife of
the cpmpttmHsrviOf ttia i currency; Mrs.
Harriet Lane Johnston, a former lady of
the white house; Mrs. Fuller, wife of
Chief Justice Fuller;.. Mrs. jtufus W.
pf-ckhana, Jr.; Mrs. XJralg, Miss Harmon,
Mrs. Minot, Mrs. A. A. Wilson, Mrs.
Ralph Cross Johnson, Miss McMillan,
Miss Waller, Miss Brice, Miss Gray, Mrs!
Nott, wife of the chief Justice of the court
of claims; M.lss Mary L Kennedy, Mrs.
Clarence Cary, Mrs ®al«ftrln, Miss Eliza
beth Curtis, Mrs, Dae, . Mrs. Whitney,
W
.to** «to
Mrs. Maxwell, Mrs. Bowler, Mrs. Dabney,
Mrs. Miles, wife of Gen. Miles; Mrs. Saw
telle, wife of Gen. Sawtelle; Mrs.
Wheaton, wife of Gen. Wheaton; Miss
Craig, Mrs. Micou, Miss Tuekerman,
Miss Stevenson, Miss Mabel Johnson,
Mrs. Ramsey, wife of Admiral Ramsey;
Mrs. Matthews, wife of Commodore Mat
thews; Mrs. Goodloe, Mrs. Stanley Mat
thews, Miss Mitchell, Mrs. WilMam G.
Rice.
The first to greet the President was the
British ambassador. Sir Julian Paunce
fote, dean of the diplomatic corps. He
was accompanied by Rady Pauncefote
and daughters, and the attaches of the
British legation.
| Next came the ambassadors of France,
Italy and Germany with their legation
staffs. After these came the plain min
isters, headed by Senor Romero, of Mex
ico, and other diplomatic representatives
in the order of 'their rank and seniority.
A year ago a Chinese woman was seen
for the first time at the opening function
of the official social season. She was
Mrs. Tang Yu, the wife of the envoy from
the flowery kingdom. Today she came
again and created quite as much Interest
and comment as she did on her previous
appearance at a New Year’s reception.
Her wonderful silken robes were the ad
miration of all the women present, while
every man pronounced her as pretty as
a picture, and not a Chinese picture
either. Her attractive little face beamed
beneath a curious head dress that fairly
glittered with precious stones. She drew
the lion’s share of attention, even more
than her husband and the silk gowned
members of his suite. Yang Yu's cos
tume was resplendent. In his wake came
his secretaries and attaches. It is prob
able that the participation of the wives
of Chinese ministers at official social
functions will be a permanent thing. Mr.
Yang Yu will be succeeded this year by
another distinguished fellow countryman
and it is safe to say that his European
wife will exercise all the prerogatives to
which her sex entitles her in her native
land.
The presence of Mrs. Yang Yu was not |
the only mark of Oriental advancement
at the reception. When the Korean min
ister and his suite werv announcer! the
spectators who craned their necks to
see the odd head-dresses and gowns in
which they had been accustom d to see
the representatives of the hermit king
dom attired, met with a disappointment
for they had discarded their picturesque
costume for the conventional garments
of European civilian, appearing In them
for the first time at the New Year's day
function.
Washington, Jan. 1.—The last of the
diplomats to pay his respects was Senor
J. D. Rodriguez, the first representative
of the Greater republic of Central Ameri
ca (Honduras, Nicaragua and Salvador.)
Secretary Olney, who had made the
presentation of the members of the
diplomatic body stepped to the rear as
the last of the foreigners had passed and
Col. Wilson took his place to Introduce
those that had followed. Chief Justice
Fuller led the line of the grave-looking
Judges of the federal supreme court;
Chief Justice Nntt, the new presid
ing officer of the United States court of
claims, was followed by his associates on
the bench; Chief Justice Alvey, of the
court of appeals of the District of Colum
bia, a member of the Venezuelan com
mission, preceded the district judiciary.
Then came ex-members of the cabinet
and ex-ministers of the United States.'
• Maj.-Clen. Miles, attired lti his full uni
form, a broad golden scarf across his
breast indicating that he was the com
manding general of the military forces,
led the large contingent of army officers.
vdjt.-Gen. Ruggles and the various
origadiers-general who preside over the
bureaus of the war department were im
mediately In his rear.
Rear Admiral Ramsey, Rear Admiral
Walker, Commodores Matthews, Samp
son, Hichborn, Melville and a number of
other well-known officers composed the
naval contingent. Col. Heywood, the
commandant of the marine corps, led
those under him, and after them came
Gen. Ordway, and the general staff of the
militia of the District of Columbia.
Senators and representatives In con
gress had struggled along before and be
hind the military and naval parade.
•Speaker Reed bowled past the receiving
party, attracting considerable attention.
Senator Sherman and other veteran
wearers of the toga, were also present.
Black frock coats became the rule at this
point, and continued for some time. Pass
ing along in the order assigned came the
regents and secretary of the Smithsonian
Institute, the civil service commission,
the assistants to the executive depart
ments and the heads of governmental
bu reaus.
Carrying their tattered battle flags
came the associated veterans of the war
with Mexico, all bowed down wjth the
weight of years; then members of the
Grand Army of the Republic, the Loyal
Legion, the Union Veterans’ Legion and
the Oldest Inhabitants' association, of the
District of Columbia.
It was nearly 1 o’clock when the public
reception began. Men, women and child
ren In all walks of life passed In a seem
ingly endless procession through the re
ception rooms. For each the President
and Mrs. Cleveland had a smile and a
handshake.
At 2 o’clock the doors were closed and
the last of the most trying social ordeal
of the Cleveland administration was over.
SUMMARY JUSTICE
Meted Out In a Judicial Way to a Would
Be Rapist..
Macon, Ga., Jan. 1.—A special to the
Telegraph from Albany, Ga., says: San
key Cunningham, the young negro who
made a murderous and brutal assault on
Miss Katie Camp, daughter of Mr. James
Camp, near this city, on the 3d day of
December, last, was hanged in the coun
ty Jail yard today. Cunnigham, It will
be remembered, was a trusty In the
county chain gang, and his victim was
assaulted In her home near the chain
gang stockade. The arrest of the negro
and the flight of the officers with
him to the Bibb county Jail to keep
him from being lynched are matters
which have been fully reported in these
dispatches.
Judge Spence had the prisoner arraign
ed a week after the crime had been com
mitted. He was promptly convicted
and sentenced to death and was returned
tb Jail In Macon where he remained until
Thursday. Today he was hanged as
above stated.
He manifested guilt on the gallows,
and claimed to have made peace with
his God. A great crowd came to town
to see the hanging, and freight cars,
house tops and every available foot of
space for blocks around from which the
gallows could be seen was covered by
curious spectators. There was no ex
citement and the execution passed off
quietly.
The drop fell at 11:44 and Cunningham
was pronounced dead in nine minutes.
Tonight Cunningham’s body is lying In
one of the colored churches in the south
ern part of the city, and relatives and
friends are holding an all-night wake
over It.
NECROLOGICAL
JOSEPH SKERRETT.
Washington, Jan. 1.—Rear Admiral
Joseph Skerrett, United States navy, (re
tired!, died at midnight at his residence
In this cltys
Edward Flanagan Threatened by
Enraged Citizens.
A DETERMINED SHERIFF
Is Prepared to Stubly'^n |y Resist Their At
tempt a'j7 ngeance.
ONE OF H|'° VICTIMS BURIED
Another Will r J~ While the Old Man May
Beoover—7 S Chief Assassinated
■S
by an ;rior Whose Head
T Vr on the Block.
'7 _
p
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 1.—Information was
received here tonight that a party of
Greene and DeKalb county men would
arrive during the night and attack the
county Jail. They want to get Edward
Flanagan and lynch him for the murders
which he committed last night near De
catur.
The county changed sheriffs today,
and Sheriff Nolms placed ten extra men
on duty tonight. He has also notified the
police and military that he will call on
them If necessary. Nolms Is a well-known
fighter, and an attempt to lynch his pris
oner would be disastrous to the attacking
party. If a mob should come to the city
from the country, It'would be hard for
them to find a leader desperate enough to
make the attack on the prison.
The Greene county people are incensed
because one of Flanagan's victims, Miss
Ruth Slack, lived there, and was
at Decatur on a visit. The Allens have
lived In DeKalb county for years, and
their neighbors are outraged. Grand
father Allen, who was knooked in the
head and was supposed to be dead, re
covered consciousness this morning and
will probably recover. Miss Slack is not
dead, but she is paralyzed and uncon
scious, and the doctors say that she
cannot possibly recover. Grandmother
Allen, was buried today.
Flanagan sent for another lawyer to
day, W. C. Glenn, accompanying his
message with a check for $500. It turns
out that Flanagan had considerable road
money in bank, and he had more than
$500 In cash in his pockets when he was
brought into jail.
The defense will be insanity.
Flanagan says that he was in love with
the little child, Leila Alien, and the fam
ily had consented to their marriage when
she was older. He states that he be
lieved yesterday that the Allens were
plotting to have him arrested, so as to
get his money. He had a morbid imag
ination, and has made various statements
about the Allens of late.
He says that he offered Father Ken
nedy $1,000 if he would place Leila Allen
In a convent where she could remain until
old enough to marry. Father Kennedy
is out of the city.
Flanagan was for a time a traveling
agent of the Standard Oil company. He
says that he came originally from Mis
sissippi. He is 28 years of age.
A NORFOLK SENSATION.
Chief of the Fire Department Shot by
An Inferior Officer.
Norfolk, Va., Jan. 1.—Chief Martin J.
Ryan, of the Norfolk fire department,
was shot this afternoon by Capt. Frank
Wood, assistant chief of the department.
Chief Ryan was standing in the street
between engine house No. 1 and the po
lice station, when Capt. Wood approach
ed and making some remark drew a six
shooter and fired five shots, when he was
overpowered by bystanders who rushed
to the rescue of the chief. He was lodged
In jail. Chief Ryan was taken to the
hospital, where it was found that he had
received two wounds, one in the right
knee and one in the back.
He will probably recover. While the
shooting was in progress Mayor Mayo
was writing an order suspending Capt.
Wood from the department for drunken
ness, which offense had been reported by
Chief Ryan. This caused the shooting.
Capt. Wood is an old and very valuable
fireman and exceedingly popular. But
his one weakness, fondness for drink,
was generally recognized, though he did
not often yield to it. He was Intoxicat
ed when he did the shooting today. He
Is still in jail.
IMPORTANT CAPTURE.
Dallas, Tex., Jan. 1.—A burglar giving
the name of Charles Wilson and residence
Bette, Mont., was captured here this
morning robbing the house of Eugene
Crowder, a wholesale druggist. Chief of
Police Arnold says the capture is the
most important made by his force in
years. Wilson, he says, is an alias, and
that the prisoner is one of the most des
perate criminals in the country, having
operated in the cities of New York,
Chicago, St. Louis. San Francisco, Los
Angeles and New Orleans. Chief Arnold
declined to make known Wilson's true
identity until he communicates with po
lice departments in various parts of the
country with the hope of capturing con
federates.
HANGED HIMSELF.
Lincoln. Neb., Jan. 1.—Ex-Senator Hen
ry Seerurg, at the head of the Standard
Glass and Paint company, one of the
most prominent as well as popular busi
ness men In Lincoln, committed suicide
by hanging himself yesterday. He was
54 years old, high in the ranks of Mason
ry, and was reputed to be wealthy, of se
rene temperament and apparently with
out business cares. Originally a republi
can, he deserted that party at the last
election and was one of the strong sup
porters of W. J. Bryan, of whom he was
a near neighbor. On the subject of free
silver he was almost a fanatic, and
among his intimates it Is known he
brooded much over its defeat, and that of
his candidate for the presidency. His do
mestic relations were pleasant and busi
ness affairs flourishing.
A FACTORY BURNED.
Chattanooga. Jan. 1.—The factory of
the Benjamin Butter Dish Manufacturing
company In Rlverview, five miles north
of this city, was burned to the ground
tonight. The tire originated In the dry
house and In the absence of means of
fighting It, spread very rapidly. The
loss will approximate $14,000; insurance,
$6000. The plant employed about twenty
five hands, and was completed only a
short time ago.
MAY BE LYNCHED.
Mllau, Tenn., Jan. 1.—Six negroes are
under arrest fo£ the brutal murder of
Capt. H. P. Miner, proprietor of the
Southern Pacific hotel, whose body was
found yesterday in an unused barroom
wife his head beaten to a pulp. The ne
groes are heavily guarded, and as soon
as any sort of proof is obtained the en
tire six will probably be lynched and
burned, as 2,000 people are at a fever
heat over the affair. Captain Miller was
beaten over the head with brass knuck
les and the cash drawer robbed of Its
contents.
FATAL REAR END COLLISION.
Schenectady, N. Y„ Jan. 1.—Early this
morning a rear end collision occurred on
the New York Central railroad near hero
between two freight trains. John Cook,
a fireman, and Charles Vogel, a brake
man, both of Albany, were killed. George
Gilchrist, engineer, of the rear train,
saw that a collision was Inevitable ar.d
Jumped, thereby saving his life.
Several cars caught lire and were burn
ed, causing a loss of *30,000.
WERE INNOCENT MEN.
Kansas City, Mo,, Jan, 1.—Prosecuting
Attorney Aul, of DaFayette county, In an
interview here yesterday expressed the
opinion that the two men, James Nelson
and Jessie Winner, who were ivnched by
n mob at Lexington a short time ago,
were innocent of the murder of Mrs. Win
ner and her baby. He claims to have suf
ficient evidence to cause the indictment
of fifty of the lynchers.
FRICTION DID THE WORK. '
Richmond, Jan. 1.—Fire broke out to
night in the furniture ware rooms of
Walter Scott and the large stock was
practically ruined, either by being burn
ed or with water. The damage of $25,000
Is covered by Insurance. The building,
owned by the T. C. Williams estate, was
damaged about $6,000, and was fully in
sured. The fire is supposed to have been
caused by friction in the elevator shaft.
DIED OF ASPHYXIATION.
Youngstown, O., Jan. 1.—Early this
morning boarders at the home of James
Betz, on returning- home from a party,
found Betz, his wife and a 2-year old1
child dead, and four boarders uncon
scious. The latter were carried out into
the air and revived. Escaping coal gas
was the cause of the asphyxiation.
EXPLOSION AT A POWDER MILL. '
Xenia, O., Jan. 1.—Shortly after noon
a terrific explosion occurred at the .Mi
ami Powder company's works, a few!
miles north of this city. A. Kretzer, mar
ried, and Joseph Hopping, employes at
the works, were fatally 'hurt. The cause
of the explosion is unknown.
- i
A FATAL LOVE. t
Popular Bluff. Mo., Jan. 1.—At Barfield
a small town near here, yesterday Adolph
Mavis shot and killed Mrs. J. A. Paine
and then, turning the revolver on himself,
fired a bullet into his head, dying In
stantly Before Mrs. Paine’s marriaga
she and Mavis were sweethearts.
M’CULLAGH SUICIDED. I
So Says the Coroner—Funeral Postponed
—Was Well to Do.
St. Louis, Mo., Jail. X.—The funeral of
Joseph B. MeCullagh, late editor of tha
Globe-Democrat, has been postponed
until Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Tha
postponement (was necessary to give
Mrs. 'Rachel Souter, the sister of Mr. Me- 1
Cullagh, who is now on her way to St.
Louis from Brooklyn, an opportunity tq
get here. The remains will be Interred
in the McKee family lot In Bellefountaine
cemetery.
At the coroner’s inquest today the tes
timony of Dr. Hughes, who attended Mr.
MeCullagh during his recent Illness, and
that of relatives who resided with ,hlm,
was strongly In support of the theory
that death was the result of suicide. In
addition to thirty shares of stock in tha
Globe-Demoorat, which are said to hava
a market Value of $90,000. Mr. MeCullagh
possessed bonds and real estate amount
ing to about $50,000.
A MIRACULOUS ESCAPE.
Augusta. Ga„ Jan. 1.—News reached; '
Augusta tonight of the burning of a.
trestle on the Augusta Southern road'
about forty-two miles from this city. Ona
span was burned when the train crossed
over. The baggage car spanned the
burned portion when the train was
brought to a standstill. No one was In*
Jured. The escap ■ seems miraculous.
Every evidence points to Incendiarism. f
A SUCCESSION OF SUICIDES. *
Austin, Tex., Jan. 1.—Following that of
County Treasurer Jernigan yesterday,
there were two other suicides in this city
last night. Howard C. Bell, a prominent
drug clerk, took morphine, and his dead
body was found on the outskirts of the
city this afternoon. George Durst, a
tailor, was found hanging dead in his
place of business this morning.
TO PAY HIS BROTHER'S DEBTS. ,
A Virginian, Assigns His Entire Property
—Owpd Nothing Himself.
Richmond, Va., Jan. 1.—A Danville spe
cial to the Dispatch says:
John W. Holland today filed a deed of
assignment to Berryman Green, trustee,
to secure notes and drafts on which ha
had Indorsed his brother, the late C. O.
Holland, to an amount aggregating $148,
000. The assets consist principally of
valuable real estate In the business por
tion of the city, an interest in the to
bacco business and bank stock, and per
sonality of every description. The cred
itors are principally barks in Danville,
Lynchburg, Richmond, R,>anoke, Nor4
folk, Baltimore, Chatham, -Stuart, and
other points which hold notes of C. H;
Holland. Indorsed by J. W. Holland.
The assessed valuation by the late state
assessment of the property conveyed Is
$170,000 and conservative business mer*
are of the opinion, that It will pay every,
dollar of the debt. It Is notable than
the assigner himself owes not a dollar oj
debt, all the Indebtedness being Incurred
as Indorser or security of the late C. Cfc
Holland.
TOOK THE OATH OF OFFICE. I
Albany, N. Y„ Jan. 1.—Gov. Frank S.
Black was inaugurated today. The Gov
ernor took the oath of office In the assem
bly chamber In the presence of hundreds
of republicans from all over the state.
Gov. Black and staff arrived on a special
train from Troy at 10:35 under escort of
the Twenty-first, Twelfth and Sixth, sep
arate companies, of Troy. He was met
at the station by the Tenth battalion of
artillery and the Third brigade signal
corps. The line of march was then taken
up to the capitol. Gov. Black and staff
proceeded to the executive chamber and
met the retiring Governor and staff. At
11:30 the Inaugural party proceeded to tho
asembly chamber, where the lnauguraj
ceremonies took place.
GOT A JUDGSH1P.
Chattanooga, Tenix, Jan. 1.—Floyd Es*
till, of Winchester, Tenn., was tonight
appointed circuit Judge of the Fourth'
circuit by Gov. Turney, to fill out the un
explred term of John A. Moon, elected to
congress from the Third district.
SAILED FOR BALTIMORE. I1
Gibraltar, Jan. L—The former Cuban
filibustering steamer Laurada, which ar
rived here from Messina, yesterday, has
..Ailed far Baltimore. , ___ ^BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 22. .
BIRMINGHAM, ALA, SUNDAY, JANUARY 3, 1897.—SIXTEEN PAGES. •
NUMBER 354
FIFTH DM OF THE HEARING
Of Representatives of Industries
as to Tariff.
FLAX AND HEMP GOODS
The Subject Set Apart for Discussion by the
Committee.
MARKED DIFFERENCE OF OPINION
Between Eastern and Western Representa
tives of Manufacturers—One Tried To
Be Bright in His Remarks, Rut
Was Called Down.
Washington, Jan. 2.—Today was the
fifth day of the tariff hearings before
the house committee on ways and means,
the subject of discussion being "flax,
hemp and their manufactures.” There
was quite a large attendance of persons
Interested in these industries.
The first manufacturer to be heard was
Mr. William Rutherford, of Oakland,
Cal., who said that in California they
were engaged in making twine, yarn
and cloth in a great many varieties. The
first of these mills were started there
about thirty years ago, and within that
time the, business had increased largely.
They now wanted a reasonable protec
tion to run their mills, and he suggested
such changes in the tariff as were con
sidered necessary for the purpose.
The manufacturers of California, he
said, in the last election, had given their
votes for protection, thinking this the
quickest way to give employment to the
idle; protection for themselves and reve
nue for the government. The mills in the
United States had been active in keeping
down the price of these goods to the
farmers. Up to the passage of the Wil
son bill a fair duty had been given to
the industry. The. measure benefitted the
mills of Calcutta and other foreign coun
tries at the expense of the domestic man
ufacturers. Between 1893 and 1895 the
imports of Jute and burlaps more than
doubled. Under the clause in the free
list admitting cotton bagging and cer
tain goods made of burlaps, importers
were bringing cloths of various kinds.
Including horse and carriage robes. This
was not fair nor the intent fact, but the
words “all such material” used in the act
enabled the goods to be brought in. The
makers of mixed jute and cotton goods
suffered from this. He had called the
attention of the customs officials to it.
and he naaerstood that they now had
the matter under consideration.
One of the oldest plants in the United
States, established at Black Point, Cal.,
during the war, had been taken down and
transferred to Japan.
He had been advised to transfer his
plant to Yokohama, being told that he
could get his labor at from 6 to 12 cents
per day and his coal for about 90 cents
per ton. But he had found foreigners
could not hold property in Japan, and
therefore he had to give up that idea.
The summing-up of Mr. Rutherford’s
statement was the suggestion of the fol
lowing rates in the new tariff;
"Burlaps, of any width, of flax, jute or
hemp, or of which flax. Jute or hemp,
or either of them, shall be the compo
nent material of chief value (except such
as may be suitable for cotton), 1% cents
per pound. Bags for grain, made of bur
laps, 2 cents per pound."
Mr. Crawford Lyon, of Baltimore, was
the next speaker. He began by charac
terizing the last witness as a misleader
and alarmist; and he contradicted a
statement of Mr. Rutherford's as to the
admission of jute fabrics free of duty.
The interest in which he himself ap
peared was that of oil-cloth and linoleum.
In the course of Mr. Lyon’s statement
he made a remark as to manufacturers
of oil cloth in Baltimore becoming presi
dents or principals of banks.
Mr. Grosvenor asked what Mr. Lyon
meant to imply by that remark.
Mr. Lyon said that he preferred to go
on with his statement and be interrogat
ed afterwards.
This suggestion was resented by several
members of the committee and Mr.
Grosvenor added; “Suppo^ I insist on
having my question answered now. Tell
the committee what you mean to imply
by saying that certain bank presidents in
Baltimore have been engaged in the
manufacture of oil cloths.”
“I imply nothing,” said the witness.
“I say that certain manufacturers of oil
cloths in Baltimore have become presi
dents and principals of banks.”
"Perhaps they were bank presidents
before they became pil cloth manufac
turers,” Mr. Grosvenor suggested.
"That is not so,” said Mr. Lyon.
"Then you mean to imply,” Mr. Grosv
enor persisted, "that they make unreas
onable profits as oil cloth manufacturers
and went into the banking business?”
"I leave you to imply whatever you
like,” was the reply.
The oil cloth and lineoleum business
here, he said, was in the hands of a few
companies. Any increase in the present
duties would prohibit importations and
place the makers here in a position to
"squeeze”’ the public; an opportunity
they have never known to overlook. The
cost of making these products now was
lower than ever before, and in, addition,
■ the Improvement of machinery enabled
one employe to do a great deal more
work.
Mr. Kutnerrora, or canrorma, tne nrst
witness said that he did not object to be-!
ing called an "alarmist,” blit he would
not submit to being characterized as a
misleader, and he went on to argue that
he was right in his original statement.
John Wilson, of Newark, N. J.. a flax
worker, spoke on behalf of those engaged
in this trade. He asked for the restora
tion of the duties of three cents per
pound on dressed flax with free raw
material. If raw material was taxed
1 cent a pound he asked 4% per cent, rer
pound on the dressed article, to even the
difference in. wages here and abroad.
Leslie Coombs, of Lexington, Ky„ said
that previous to the passage of the pres
ent tariff law he had been the largest
hemp grower in this country. His busi
ness had been practically destroyed un
der the law, and he had not grown a
pound for years.
The putting Of sisal grass, manilla and
Jute on the free list had greatly damaged
the hemp industry. At the time of the
formation of the McKinley bill * the
growers of hemp did not understand the
danger from these substitutes. He asked
for a duty of }30 per Ion on Russian and
Italian hemp and .135 per ton oil manilla,
sisal grass and jute. He also wished a
Clause placed In the law making It a
crime to sell Jute goods, colored and
dyed, as hemp. It was aff outrage to
allow cheap common jute products to be
brought here from abroad and'passed Off
as the genuine Kentucky hemp. • i
Representative Vanhorn, of Missouri,
spoke of the destruction of the hemp In
dustry in hie state. Farmers of Missou
ri, he said, would be glad to return to
hemp raising:, and would do so it protec
tion was offered.
J. N. Beniis, of Boston, representing the
burlap bag manufacturers of this coun
try. claimed that there was no burlap
Industry here to compete with that
abroad, and therefore no industry to pro
tect. He requested a duty on burlap
bags sufficient to cover the differences in
the cost of labor here and abroad. He
wanted free burlaps and free burlap
cloth the proper width' for making bags.
Jute he held could not be grown here
under any conditions. In case a high
duty was imposed on Jute and burlap
cloth the India government would meet
it by giving an export bounty on the
products.
E. R. Biddle, of New York, said that
the samples submitted by Mr. Ruther
ford, of California, as coming in free of
duty at San Francisco, were paying duty
at New York and suggested that the at
tention of the treasury department be
called to the fraud.
C. E. Pearce, of St. Louis, representing
the manufacturers of cotton bagging and
cordage, asked for the restoration of the
duty on these articles provided In the Mc
Kinley bill.
He said that the free importation of
Jute and other fibers had displaced an
nually 2.000.000 bales of American cotton.
In his opinion cordage could stand a re
duction (under the McKinley rate) from
H4 to 1 cent and binding twine from %
to about % cent.
W. R. McCreery, of Frankfort, Ky„
said he was president of a company
which had been making hemp binding
twine for a number of years. He wanted
to say that the product was a.r. excellent
one and could be successfully made here.
Mr. Pearce, replying to a question, said
that Jute or raimoro could be grown any
place south of Lexington.
The committee adjourned until Monday
when the tobacco interests will be heard.
A NOVEL FEATURE
Develops In the Edward Flanagan Case
—His Money Attached.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 2.—A novel feature
developed today In the Allen murder
case. Edward Flanagan, the murderer,
has some money In cash and In bank,
about $1,600 in all. All of this was at
tached today on a suit brought :by Mrs.
Catherine Ware, who owns the house
where the tragedy occurred. Mrs. Ware
says that the property has been ruined
by the murder and the blood which was
scattered all about. The surviving Al
lens have moved away and she cannot
get any tenant to take the cottage, she
says in her suit. Therefore she sues
Flanagan for *1,625 damages, which she
says is the amount of the loss sustained
through the crimes which he committed.
W. C. Glenn, Flanagan’s attorney, re
ceived a check for a retainer yesterday,
but the bank was not open and it may
take a suit to determine whether the
check is good or not. If Flanagan should
be convicted of murder his attorney
would insist on staying execution until
the damage suit could be tried, as t'he
prisoner would be needed as a witness in
the suit for damages*
THE TAMMANY TIGER
Stops In Atlanta, and Has a Word to Say
On Political Lines.
Atlanta. Jan. 2.—Richard Croker, of
New York, stopped here tonight, on his
way to Belle Meade stock farm, near
Nashville, Tenn. He was non-committal
on politics until pressed for a suggestion
as to 1900. Then he said deliberately:
“Mr. McKinley was elected on the idea
that republican success would bo fol
lowed by prosperity. Unless times get bet
ter Mr. Bryan or some one on his line will
be elected in 1900 by the most overwhelm
ing majority' ever given to a candidate
for President.”
Mr. Croker asked many questions about
Mr. Bryan's recent lecture here.
DINED IN AUGUSTA.
'Augusta, Ga., Jan. 2.—Hon. Richard
Croker, Judge Morgan, J. O’Brien, Hon.
John D. Crimmins and a party of other
well-known New Yorkers were in Au
gusta today. They were entertained by
ex-Senator Patrick Walsh, President D.
B. Dyer, of the Augusta railway, and
other prominent citizens. Mr. Croker left
in the afternoon for Belle Meade farm,
Tennessee, in which he has an interest
with Gen. Jackson.
The party were the guests of General
Manager Anderson, of the Charleston and
Western Carolina railroad system.
THE UNLUCKY NUMBER.
City of Mexico, Jan. 2.—It is reported
from Pachuco, state of Hidalgo, that a
fire broke out in one of the levels of the
Santa Gertruse mine, one of the most
celebrated silver mines in the country.
The Are shut off the exit of thirteen min
ers, who perished from suffocation or
burning. An Englishman, named Rich
ards, who led a rescue party, was suf
focated to death. The cause of the fire
Is unknown. The bodies have not yet
been recovered.
WILL RESUME SHORTLY.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 2.—Commencing
January 18, the celebrated Florida special
via the Atlantic Coast Line, and Riant
systems will be inaugurated, leaving New
York at 4:30 p. m., making the .run to
Jacksonville in twenty-six hours.
FINANCIAL
Chicago, Jan..2—The Western Paper
Bag company, of Batavia, 111., one of the
Van Nortwick plants, was placed in the
hands of a receiver at noon today by the!
United States court. William G. Stevens,
of Chicago, agreed upon by the counsel
on both sides, was appointed receiver
wlt'h a bond of $100,000. The defendant
corporation admits itself to be Insolvent,
but without giving a schedule of assets
and liabilities. "We cannot tell Just how
the concern stands,” said Attorney A. W.
Green, representing the Van Nortwlcks.
“A statement is now being prepared and
will be finished in a day or two.”
Omaha, Neb., Jan. 2.—The Omaha Sav
ings bank failed to open for,business this
morning. Kx-Senator Manderson Is pres
ident of the bank, and J. E. Wilbur, cash
ier. The bank was established in 1882.
Six months ago Its deposits were $1,600,000,
but withdrawals have reduced them to
less than $000,000. The face value of the
assets almost reached $1,100,000 and the
capital arid surplus are $185,000. The
clearing house bank declined to assist the
bank to the extent required, except on
condition that the stockholders of the
failed bapk would themselves advance
$100,000 and take that amount of real
estate off the bank's hands. The fail
ure was due to rapid withdrawals of de
posits during the past three weeks,
caused by excitement resulting from the
bank failures in Chicago and elsewhere.
The stockholders are men of means and
will give the necessary bond to secure
the appointment of a receiver of their
own selection and pay all depositors in In
stallments.
Whitehall, Mich.. Jan. 2.—A bank exam
iner closed the Whitehall State Savings
bank this morning.
THE NEW TEAR'S RECEPTION
Of the Diplomatic Body at the
German Court
WAS A GRAND AFFAIR
Emperor Was in Excellent Spirits and Min'
gled Freely With the Crowd.
UNITED STATES AMBASSADOR UHL
Was Shown .Especial Favor by His High
ness-Army To Be Strengthened—Ger
man Bourse Law the Subject of a
Special Council Discussion.
Berlin, Jan. 2.—The New Year’s recep
tion given by the diplomatic body yes
terday was a brilliant event. The recep
tion was held in the marble hall of the
Schloss, and was very largely attended,
nearly all of the ambassadors and minis
ters accredited to the German court be
ing present. The emperor was In excel
lent spirits, and Immediately after he en
tered the hall mingled with the guests,
greeting them with cordial handshakings
and cheerful smiles. His majesty was
especially agreeable to United States Am
bassador Uhl, with whom he conversed
for some time, Inquiring as to president
Cleveland’s health, asking how Mr. Uhl
liked Berlin, etc. The kaiser also spoke
admirably of the growth and prosperity
of the United States, and showed himself
to be well informed upon the political
and economical affairs of the American
republic.
Despite the depressing weather which
prevailed Friday, the other court festivi
ties proceeded wit'h the usual galetyi
Unter Den Linden and the adjacent
streets were thronged with people at day
break, many of those In the crowd hav
ing remained in their places throughout
the night in order to be in positions to see
the official celebration of the day. At 8
o'clock in the morning all of the infantry
of the garrison marched from the
Schloss to the Brandenberg gate and
back, each regiment with its band play
ing popular airs. At 10 o’clock religious
services were held in the chapel of the
Schlpss, lasting forty minutes. The en
tire-imperial family were present. The
emporer entered the chapel, giving his
arm to his mother, and the empress was
escorted by Prince Arnulph, of Bavaria,
After the services in the chapel the em
peror and empress held a reception in the
white hall of the Schloss, where their
majesties received the congratulations
of the court. The ladles were attired in
morning gowns, with trains and wore
bonnets. The gentlemen wore uniforms,
with the insignia of the orders and the.
ribbons which they are entitled to wear.
The military officers wore parade uni
forms. The emperor next went to the
Rtttersaal (the hall of the knights), where
he delivered a brief address to the gen
erals who were assembled there to re
ceive him. Accounts vary as to the na
ture of his majesty’s speech, but it Js
asserted upon good authority that he re
ferred to the bill before the reichstag pro
viding for the augmentation of the artil
lery arm of the military service, declaring
that the armaments of Germany must
keep pace with, if they do not keep In
front of those of other nations. The em
porer is also quoted as saying that the
year 1887 must see the great task of in
creasing the strength of the artillery ser
vice achieved. Leaving the Rittersaal,
the kaiser went to the arsenal, where the
officers of the entire garrison of Berlin
were assembled.' Tb these he gave the
watch word of the day and in the after
noon he made several private visits. At
6 o’clock the emperor dined with his fam
ily. The approaches to the Schloss were
crowded with sight-seers until long after
dark.
The opposition of the German stock
and produce exchanges to the new bourse
law prohibiting future transactions and
imposing other restrictions upon bourse
trading, was the subject of discussion
at the special ministerial council which
was held on Wednesday. The meeting
was called to order by Dr. Von Boettich
er, vice-president of the council of min
isters, whJo presided until the emperor
suddenly made his appearance and took
the chair, which he occupied for two
hours. On Thursday another meeting of
the council was held with the imperial
chancellor, Prince Hohenlohe In the chair
The calling of these (wo meetings, which
occurred only twenty-four hours apart,
are clearly, indicative of the gravity of
this trouble as it is regarded by the min
istry, anjl .the discussion of the subject
by the ministers waa in the direction of
devising means to overcome It.
Nothing IS known, Of the proceedings
of the meeting of the council at which
the emperor presided, but it Is known
that the meeting presided over by
Prince Hohenlohe took Into consideration
the effects of the resolution passed by the
Berlin produce exchange, declaring that
the organisation would continue business
under the ngw law only In the capacity
of a free association of traders, and
transacting business At his own offices,
but having common assembly rooms for
the purpose of exchanging prices in the
building.known as Driasel’s chamber. It
Is understood that the council were un
able to decide, or at all events, did not
decide upon any plan of meeting the op
position of the deal<S*t> to the new law..
The members of ’the produce exchange,
apart from protesting against the sup
pression of future deals, object to the reg
ulations of the law placing seven repre
sentatives of agrarian interests upon the
bourse committee, at least two of whom
must be 'present when the prices of
grain, malt, sugar, grape oils, spirits and
certain kinds of produce are generally
fixed. Besides objecting to these re
strictions. there &Ye numerous other reg
ulations to which the boursiers take ex
ception-all of them bearing the impress
of a common aim to assist the agrarians
by preventing bourse aerators and deal
ers from depressing prices. These reg
ulations give the bill the character of an
entirely new experlWieht’ln economy, and
outside the ranks of the agrarians the bill
is regarded as being utterly impractica
ble.
HtJgSIAIS' NEOT ...COURT.
BerliA,! Jan. 2.—Asr^eiil dispatch from
St. Petersburg to the Cologne Gazette
says Il ls "the Intention of the czar to
create a pUpreme'Court, with the object
of relieving him of much of the work
which devolves upon the emperor. The
new court will settle all the matters now
decided by the czar, except those of the
highest lntportancej' wjhch will, as here
toforefihe referred ta thftetnpcror himself.
The Grand Duke ColMMttlne Constantin
ovltch, luncl^fjf the rtatf, Vlll be appoint
ed prudent of the cofirt.
WHERE DID ITCOME FROM?
The Sultan Finds a Surplus in
the Treasury.
IS IT THE RUSSIAN HAND?
And Is the Iron-Handed Ruler Playing the
Part of a Judas?
THESE ARE SUPREME QUESTIONS
Which Now Agitate London—Contradict
ory Reporta of Conditions in Turkey—
Manchester Has a Real Live Sensa
tion-Truth Again Springaa Poser.
iiindoh, Jail. 2.—Copyright, 1897, by the
Sun Printing and Publishing Associa
tion.—Persons accustomed to call at the
Turkish embassy In Bryanston square,
this city, observed today a strange
gleaming In the ambassadorial and sec
retarial eyes. It was not a glint of fe
rocity, for the Turk, away from home
and standing the provocation of the sight
of fat, sleek Armenians and Greeks, who
somehow seem- prosper while he
starves, Is the mildest mannered of men.
It was rather a light of hope Inspired by
the prospect of the satisfaction of a de
sire long deferred. The entire embassy.
In fact, was Imbued by the belief that
something was about to be paid on ac
count of arrears of salaries. Tactful in
quiry elicited no sort of Justification
which would have tilled a European wltn
such optimism, but the Turkish diplo
matic officer finds enough ground upon
which to anchor hope In a square yard
where a European would require a square
mile, and even then fail to find secure
anchorage. The Sun reporter round the
optimism which lighted up Bryanston
square and the murky vicinity was in
spired by the receipt of an Intimation
that funds were about to be forwarded
through the usual channel and every one
appeared to be perfectly satisfied there
at, for in addition to a direct promise,
Indirect proof was forthcoming that mat
ters financial were looking up In Con
stantinople. The Hamidiech cavalry,
which were sent home to Asia Minor
this week, were paid almost In full be
fore starting, and In several Instances
troops who took the risk of threatening
to mutiny received something on ac
count. Even the common workmen and
the disbanded marines, who engaged in
the demonstration at the arsenal In Con
stantinople the other day, have received
an Installment of the money due them.
All crt which goes to prove that there Is
money somewhere In Turkey, and In ad
dition to this certainty there remains the
great and glorious fact that the sultan’s
financial financiers ' have produced a
beautiful budget, cannot but be a pre
liminary to floating an even lovelier loan,
with the proceeds of which everybody
will be made happy indeed. European
scoffers recall the fact that so recently as
last October, It was officially estimated
that the budget would show a deficit of
$5,000,000, while unofficial estimates put"
It at nearly $20,000,000. But the budget
commission now say there ts an undoubt
ed surplus and as the sultan has given
the statement the seal of his Imperial ap
proval, obviously there is nothing more
to say.
The political situation In Constantino
ple remains virtually unchanged since a
week ago.
Prince Bismarck has inspired the
Vienna Neue Freie Presse to declare
that "the web on which Russia, together
with other powers is publicly engaged,
namely the work of reforms, is secretly
undone by her day by day.” The Turk
knows Europe is not united, and acts ac
cordingly. The whole is a comedy in
which the dupes are not even duped, be
cause every cabinet in Europe knows
that Russia is insincere. She will at the
right moment land troops on the shores
of the Bosphorus and force a protectorate
upon the helpless sultan and then close
the doors of the straits, putting the keys
into her pocket, and, being secure against
ships from that side, devote all her ener
gy to the furtherance of her Asiatic
schemes. It is unlikely that England
will object by force because she could
count on military support neither from
Austria, which has already concluded a
compact with Russia on the model of
that signed at Relchstadt, with regard to
the occupation of Bosnia and Herzogoy
ina, nor from Italy, which statements, to
the contrary notwithstanding, has a
treaty with Russia.
The upshot of it all will be that Con
stantinople will become Russian with
the rest of the Turkish empire, except a
portion allotted beforehand to Austria,
namely, ^alonica and Its neighborhood.
The N«Ste Freie Presse does not specifi
cally state that its Informant is Prince
Bismarck; but the source of its inspira
tion is well understood to be Freldrichs
ruhe, and many people, therefore, are dis
posed to attach paramount importance
to the foregoing summary of the situa
tion. But Prince Bismarck has said the
same thing over and over again since his
expulsion from power, and although It is
perfectly true that Russia dominates
Europe and will make more out of the
Turkish crisis than any other power, fhe
suggestion that she IS now playing Eu
rope false may be dismissed as baseless.
At this Juncture a more trustworthy au
thority than the ex-chancellor even is the
Constantinople correspondent of the Lon
don Daily News, who has confidential re
lations not only with his own embassy
there, but with the Russian embassy as
well. He telegraphed yesterday in full
confirmation of the Sun's last dispatch
on the subject that “the most noteworthy
feature of the present situation is that
the ambassadors are united among them
aelves as to the lines of conduct to be
pursued. So far as they are concerned
the concert of Europe is more completely
In harmony than It has ever been. What
they are. discussing Is kept strictly
among themselves. They have neither
a secretary nor a protocollst at their
nmetlngs and are agreed that for the
present at least nothing will be told out
side their own circle. But they have no
hesitation in letting It be known that they
are morking harmoniously together. It
Is notorious that on previous occasions
they have endeavored to be in accord,
but they have not succeeded, but the
statement is now made so seriously that
all are In line as to what they want as
to hardly leave room for doubt that the
gravity of the situation and the absolute
necessity of finding an actual, and not a
merely apparent and plausible solution
have Induced the embassadors or the
power they represent to sink all minor
differences and then agree to devise a
scheme Which Can be enforced as well as
accepted. The ambassadors of England,
France and Russia apparently mean
business and M. Nelidoff, the Russian
ambassador, finds himself supported by
the representatives of all the other great
powers.
The best proof that the powers have
agreed upon something which Is not to
be a mere sham or other paper reform
Is the pertubation which the past week
has witnessed. The able palace favorite,
Izzet Bey, nas been entrusted with a mis
sion which is believed to consist in keep
ing the ambassadors at loggerheads, and
It is rumored that his great Influence at
the Yildiz Kiosk will cease as soon as It
becomes manifest that the ambassadors
cannot be set one against the other.
"But during the past week the ambas
sadors have had visits paid them with the
object of learning whether each one vis
ited could be induced to see thAt the sep
arate interests of the country he repre
sents would be best served by supporting
Turkey. It Nelldoff Is reported to have
given an answer to such an Inquiry,
worthy of the great empire he represents.
M. Cabot, the French ambassador, and
Sir Philip Currie, the British ambassa
dor, have each had similar visits, and
have, of course, met them with entire
loyalty to t}ie agreement among the pow
ers. The depression of the palace Cama
rillas Is excellent evidence that the Turk
ish ruling party believes for once that
the powers are united and intend to do
something which means, In this case, to
enforce good government, and If the
Turkish alarm is Justified it mean6 that'
the powers have, before formulating their
scheme of reforms, agreed among them
selves as to the means to be employed
for coercion if coercion be necessary."
The Dally News correspondent appar
ently believes that the scheme of re
forms tr> be enforced down the sultan’s
throat Is not even yet completely settled,
and that the plan of operations to be fol
lowed, in case coercion has to be applied,
Is not quite agreed upon, but the facts
are as stated. Nobody doubts that the
use of force by the European powers will
be immediately followed by anti-Chris
tian outbursts in various parts of the
Ottoman empire, but the general opin
ion among those who know the Turkish
character well Is that matters will soon
settle down. Furthermore. It has been
hastily assumed that the Christians are
incapable of taking care of themselves.
It may be confidently expected that
the Armenians, who are not naturally a
warlike race, would fight when they
heard that their hour of deliverance had
arrived; but the Armenians, of course,
are not the only Christians In the sul
tan’s domain. The Greeks will have to
be reckoned with, and that they are a
formidable factor may be Judged from
the fact that there are 420,000 of them In
Constantinople alone. A well-informed
correspondent opportunely reminds us
that these Greeks have long been pre
pared for the possible eventuality of their
turn following that of the Armenians.
They are all well armed, and it Is their
boast that every male among them over
10 years is an adept in the use of edged
weapons. The correspondent adds;
“At the time of the late Armenian mas
sacre the Hellenic element was fully
prepared for an attack and persons who
were able to form an opinion declared
that had they been molested they would
have made a clean sweep of the cowardly
blood-thirsty Turkish rabble at Smyrna.
The Greek element Is so numerous and
powerful that in case of popular Moslem
rising against the Christians they would
seize and hold the city.”
English newspapers, which from time
to time obtain much gratification and
matter for moralizing upon from the po
lice scandals In New York, probably give
less play to their virtue on this subject,
now that one of the chief cities of the
British empire is found to be tainted in
a similar manner. Last Wednesday,
William Bannister, superintendent of the
Manchester police force, was dismissed
with ignominy and fined by a peace mag
istrate for what is euphemistically de
scribed, on the charge of sheer neglect of
duty.
Tm man ousni ro nave own raaig™
pretty well with every crime possible for
a trusted public officer to commit, but
there was a general desire In Manchester
to kerp the scandal within the narrowest
bounds so* far as publicity was concerned
and so Bannister has been let off lightly,
and other officers, wh» ought to have
been prisoners In the dock with him,
escaped with nothing more se.rlous than
a caution. The main trouble was con
nected, as In New York, with disorderly
houses, but Bannister beat his American
prototypes all hollow. He not only
levied blackmail upon the wretched wo
men as a matter of routine business, but
was actually part owner of a disorderly
house himself and tried to establish a
monopoly for ihe establishment in its own
particular district by persistently raiding
rival houses within a specified radius.
The occupants of these houses in other
districts who could not be regarded ns
rivals In business, were regularly warned
when raids were contemplated and, of
course, had to pay for the information.
Bannister was within nine months of
completing twenty-five Hears’ service,
which would have entitled him to a pen
sion of $1,000 a year and this, of course, he
has forfeited, but there Is not the least
doubt that he has made plenty of money
by his nefarious operations, which will
enable him to live in comfort for the rest
of his life'. Immaculate Manchester is in
a sea of much virtuous indignation at
these disclosures, but the feeling is ap
parently not strong enough to compel a
searching Investigation by an Impartial
body Into the whole question of the con
nection of their police officer’s Illegal
practices.
Mr. Henry Labouchcre. in Truth, and
Editor Palmer, of the Yorkshire Post,
an influential provincial Journal, call at
tention this week to a subject more than
once referred to here—the bribing of En
glish newspapers by means of advertise
ments inserted ostensibly as news and
by payment for the Insertion of pros
pectuses of new companies on condition
of their being puffed more or less direct
ly. Neither critic is sufficiently severe
upon the state of things which is fast
sapping the Independence of the press
of this country. Both appear to think
that only second or third rate newspa
pers are bribed, which 1b far from be
ing the case. Papers with more than a
local reputation such as the London
Times, Morning Post and Daily Tele
graph, habitually Insert personal notices
for payment, which are advertisements
pure and simple, and not always inspired
by harmless vanity, and their example Is
being very widely followed. The chief
evil of the system Is the puffing and
swindling concerns of company-promot
ers and bucket shop keepers. A glaring
case in point was the advertisement of
the British motor syndicates, an Impu
dent scheme for extracting three mil
lions sterling from the packets of sim
ple Investors, for the property is prac
tically worthless. The newspapers, from
the Times down to the smallest evening
sheet In a third rate town, got this ad
vertisement at their own prices and In
serted It, two columns long, with grati
tude and joy, although It bore upon its
face the full, brand of dishonesty and
the hall mark of swindling promoters
which every business man could plninly
see and understand. Tcf. with three or
four honorable exception.;, r.) newspaper
criticised the lying statements in the
prospectus much less warned simple
investors against Us dangers.
The inherent rottenness of the scheme
was sufficiently proved by the fact that
despite lavish advertising upon a scale
almost unparalleled, the public sub
scribed not the millions asked, but only
a few poor thousands, which came en
tirely from country people unacquainted
with the ways of stock exchange sharks,
i tcontinuea on Fourth Bago.)
THE REPORT^CDNFIRMeJ
Brave Maceo, After Being Pre
pared for Burial,
SHOWS SIGNS OF LIFE
And V'Mi Great Care He Is Conveyed to a
& Place of Safety.
m _
V
$> s NOW RAPIDLY RECOVERING
•5 It Is Thought He Will Pay a Visit to
*
a? the United States in the Near
future To Tell
OP HIS ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION
Spaniards Indignant Over Weyler’s Du
plicity, and It la Thought He Will
Be Severely Dealt With—Com
modore Sinks With a
Preeioua Cargo.
Havana, Jan. 2.—(Via Key West, FIa„
Jan. 2.)—Reports that Maceo is alive are
coming: constantly from the field, and all
tend to show that he is recuperating
rapidly. Letters received In Havana
from his medical attendants explain the
nature of his wounds and confirm pre
vious reports of the character of the same
and repeat the story of Zertucha's treach
ery. They say Maceo, with his stafT,
came to meet Marquis Ahumada under a
flag of truce, and that Cirujeda and his
forces were In ambush. As soon as Ma
ceo appeared the Spaniards opened fire,
Maceo being in front, fell from his horse.
Gomez also fell at his side. The rest
of the staff, some of whom were wounded,
managed to escape and reach Baldo
Mora. Acortas camp Instantly gathered
all its small forces and rushed to the as
sistance. They made a desperate fight,
and drove Cirujeda into Punta Brava,
recovered the bodies and carried the ap
parently dead Maceo with them. He
remained unconscious for four days and
five nights, and when prepared for burial
It was found that he was still alive. As
soon as he was able to be transported he
was carried with the greatest care and
under a strong escort to the Clenega hos
pital, though others say to Slguanea.
It appears that the project of the Cu
bans, as soon as Maceo is able to move,
is to send him to the United States, and
a steamer , has already been ordered for
the purpose, and thus personally prove
■that he is alive.
Great excitement prevails in Havana
over the news. It is widely discussed
and even the Spaniards are talking of the
possibility of his being alive. A mem
ber of the produce exchange created a
sensation the other day when he an
nounc d the fact and a commotion fol
lowed. Weyler's position is critical and
the Spaniards are highly indlgnant at his
constant deception. Threats are freely
made that if Maceo is alive Wcyler will
be dragged through the streets. He
surely cannot return to Spain after the
outbursts of Joy thereover Maceo's death.
His last foolish utterances concerning
the pacification of the Pinar del Rio prov
ince have greatly aroused the Spaniards,
they knowing that it is a lie. The idea
that there are only 500 rebels in the prov
ince is deemed simply absurd when Wey
ler personally admitted a fortnight ago
that there exists^ at least 3,000. The
Spaniards also l § cule the fact of the
need of eight generals, twenty colonels
and 40,000 men to crush 500 famished
rebels. , „
The excitement over the Guanabacoa
butcheries continues and terror stricken
families are still coming into Havana.
George Hyatt, another American citi
zen residing in this place, has asked for
protection from the United States consu
late. Other foreign residents did the
same of their respective consulates. The
butcheries continue, although it is said
that orders have been sent to Fondevlela
to stop them, in view of the publicity
given, them. A reign of terror prevails
in the towns. Many residents who are
unable to move into Havana, nightly
come to sleep in the elty. Names and
details are unobtainable, as people fear
to speak. It Is only known that the vic
tims are taken from their homes at right
and carried to th? outskirts and machet
ed. It is said that the number now ex
ceeds thirty. There is reported friction
between Gen. Arolas and Gen. Weyler on
account of the former refusing to carry
out the order for the wholesale extermin
ation, of the helpless people of the dis
trict unless Weyler assumes the respon
sibility by reporting the same for pub
licity, which Weyler refuses.
LARGE NAVAL FORCE
To Cruise the Gulf in Search of Filibus
tering Expeditions.
Washington, Jan. 2.—Increased vigi
lance in filibuster patrol along the Flori
da coast is to be exhibited by the govern
ment, and no efforts spared to prevent
violation of the neutrality law. Not only
have orders for the return north of the
cruiser Newark at Key West been coun
termanded, but others issued for the dis
patch boat Dolphin, heretofore utilized
wholly as the executive yacht, to proceed
to the Florida coast at once, and she is
expected to leave the Washington navy
yard tonight for her new duty. As soon
as she can be made ready the dynamite
gunboat Vesuvius is to be sent to supple
ment the naval and revenue cutter force.
If necessary the torpedo boats Cushing
and Ericsson will speedily follow them.
All these vessels are admirably adapt
able for the work, particularly the tor
pedo vessels, which can enter all tha
lagoons and cruise among the keys.
Commander Richardson Clover has
spent the past week at the navy depart
ment studying the test charts of the
coast to find just what inlets he can safe
ly enter with the Dolphin, which draws
only 14% feet and yet possesses a speed of
over fifteen knots. She is well armed
with a main battery of two 4-inch rapid
firing rifles, besides a secondary comple
ment of two 6-pounded rapid fire guns,
two 47-mllllmelo Hotchkiss, ami two
Gatling machine guns.
The order which was Issued by the de
partment several days ago to put the
Vesuvius Into commission at League Is
land navy yard on the 12th Inst., with
Lieut.-Commander John Pillsburg. of tne
war college, in command, contemplated
- (Con tinued 'on'Fourth' Page.)BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 22. BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 1897. NUMBER 35f>
HUMANITY NOT TRADE
Prompted J.T. Morgan to Cham
pion Cuba’s Cause.
HE WRITES AN ABLE LETTER
To the Mobile Chamber of Commerce, Giving
Reasons for His Position.
AS A PRIVATE AMERICAN CITIZEN
Senator Money Creates Considerable Stir in
the Cuban Capital by His
Movements.
DID HE GO INTO 1 HE REBEL CAMPS
Story of the Sinking of the Commodore as
Told by the Captain—Seven of the
Crew Missing—Weyler Returns
to Havana-Butcheries.
Mobile, Jan, 4.—The (Mobile Chamber
of Commerce made public yesterday the
following letter from Senator John T.
Morgan, of Alabama, which was received
by the chamber in reply to some resolu
tions adopted by that body relative to
the war in Cuba:
United States Senate,
Washington, D. C., Dec. 24, 1896.
To Mr. A. Pope St. John, Secretary:—
Dear Sir: In reply to their resolutions,
please say to the Mobile Chamber of
Commerce that in my advocacy of the
Cameron resolution, relating to Cuba, I
have not found it necessary to consult or
quote any fact, or any authority outside
of the recent annual message of the
President. I have not claimed authority
as a senator to assist in protecting any
•‘rights" except those of our own non
combatative citizens who reside in Cuba
. or who have property on chat island.
Those rights have the three-fold pro
tection of the laws of nations, the treat
ies we have with Spain and of humanity.
As to the Cubans, I have the sort of
compassionate sympathy for them that
as a private American citizen 1 am just
ifled in feeling and expressing when the
tyranny of absolutelsm wages a war of
‘‘extermination” against a people as nu
merous as the people of Alabama and In
flict upon them cruelties that only Tur
key and Spain practice against those
who claim liberty of conscience and the
liberty of self-government. I will have to
re-advocate myself and forget the his
tory of Alabama, unlearn the lessons I
have been taught as to the value of those
blessings to all mankind.
. 1 am not capable of weighing these
•rights and aspirations for liberty in
scales that are adjusted only to weigh the
gains and losses of trade. Nor do I be
lieve any Alabamian would have me so
far misrepresent a gallant and Christian
people. The Bourbon rulers of Spain will
never allow peace to reign in Cuba, while
those people are animated with the hope
that they may enjoy liberties such as our
people have. They must remain the slav
ish feudatories of Spain without the right
to life or liberty at the will of the Span
ish race, or they must perish.
That sort of despotism will so con
stantly vex our people that our govern
ment will not long he able to restrain
them from doing violence to our own
laws in order to drive such tyrants from
our borders. If the Cubans fail in this,
the fourth insurrection in this country,
they will rise again and again until theyi
have escaped from the hand of the op
pressors. Seeing this, I do not see how
it can be possible for us to avoid be
ing drawn into the vortex of their
troubles sooner or later.
These are not “distant operations,”
and we are in proper respect for the
president bound to accept his statement
of the facts, which more than confirm
the “newspaper reports” against what
the chamber of commerce warns us.
It is not "hasty action’” to demand
that the murder of our citizens should
cease, that those who are unlawfully im
prisoned should be released and that
those unlawfully condemned to death
or long terms of imprisonment in Africa
should at least enjoy the right of civil
trial in conformity with our treaties
with Spain. All those crimes and even
worse crimes are imputed to both Spain
and the Cubans in the message of the
president. ’
The president denies that our people
or our government are guilty of- any "in
trusion Into the domestic affairs of a
people foreign to us In race, language
and institutions,” and I prefer to accept
his denials.
"The commercial interests of our peo
ple" are well entitled to our most careful
consideration. When the robber has fell
ed 'his victim1 in the highway it is better
that the United States should give the
wounded man a little wine and pour oil
into his wounds rather than to be led
by even our "commercial interests” to
pass by him on the other side.
With great respect, etc.,
(Signed.) JOHN T. MORGAN
SEVEN ARE MISSING
Of the Crew of the Commodore—The Oth
ers Saved—Was There Treachery?
Jacksonville. Fla,, Jan. 4.—Capt. Ed
ward Murphy, the commander of the
wrecked filibustering steamer Commo
dore, and the remainder of those saved
from the wreck arrived in this city from
Daytcmia tonight. Seven men are still
missing, and are believed to be drowned.
Capt. Murphy gives their names as fol
lows:
LIST OF MISSING.
James Reddigan, chief engineer, of
Brooklyn, N. Y.
E. R. Ritter, assistant engineer, of
Jacksonville.
Frank Grant, first mate, of Jackson
ville.
Thomas Smith, sailor, of Charleston. S.
C
Jonas Franklin, colored, fireman, of
Jacksonville.
W. A. Smith, colored, fireman, of
Jacksonville.
One unknown colored man who took
the place of Murray Nobles just before
the ship sailed.
Besides these, William Higgins, oiler,
of Connecticut, is dead, having been
drowned in the surj in landing. Capt.
Murphy says that Ritter and the two
colored men were on board the vessel
when she went down, and were drowned.
The other four men were on a raft, and
the cruised Newark and steamer Three
Friends, as well as a fleet of small boats
from the Halifax river are now hunting
for them. The Newark went to the
scene Sunday night and used her power
ful searchlight, but to no effect.
Oapt. Murphy’s story of the sinking of
the Commodore ts as follows:
At midnight Friday the engineer re
ported that the veseel was leaking badly
and the water was rapidly rising In the
hold. The pumps could not be made to
work for they were chocked, as the suc
tion was gone. The men were put to
work with buckets balling, and wood, oil
and aJcohol was put in the furnace In
order to keep up steam to get the vessel
ashore if possible. The water gained in
spite of the efforts of the men and before
the vessel ran three miles the fires were
extinguished. Anchor was thn dropped
and the boats launched. In the first was
Maj. Delgado, Paul Rojo, Felix de Los
Rios, Emelio Marquese, Ventura, Linares,
Romero Hernandez, J. Franco Blanco,
Jose Hernandez, T. Bencenor, Lino Sol
dero, Gabriel Martinez and Santiago
Diaz. In the second boat was Julio Rod
riguez Boz, Manuel Gonzales, Louis
Sierra Mederos and Jesus Alvarez.
The first boat left immediately, but tile
others stood by to render asslstancSTJf
needed.
Later another boat was launched and
Mate Grain and seven men entered It.
This was stove In before they gtyt away
from the ship. The men climbed hack
on board apd built a raft. All got on
It. and the raft was taken in tow by the
Dingy, In which were Capt. 'Murphy.
Stephen Crane, C. B. Montgomery and
William Higgins. The heavy sea caused
the raft to break loose twice and the
last time It was carried out to sea.
The captain and companions landed
Sunday morning. Delgado and party had
landed Saturday night, and Julio Boz and
party landed Sunday night. Nothing had
been seen of the raft since It drifted ou:
of sight of Capt. Murphy. When asked
1f there was treachery on board. Capt.
Murphy said tonight: "No. I do not think
so. It was neglect more than anything
else."
C. B. Montgomery, the steward, still
insists that there was treachery, but he
does not definitely place it on any one.
Paul Reejo, the Cuban commander, said
tonight: “I think the engineer was drunk
and neglected his duties. When I went
below I found that the pumps would not
heave water and that the injectors,
which are used to force kerosene into the
fire in case of emergency when steam is
immediately needed, were not on. I
asked him why. He replied that he had
ordered them put on, adding that he
would have them put on immediately. I
went above and returned In fifteen min
utes. They were not then on. He had
made no effort to put them on.”
HON. H. D. MONEY DISAPPEARS.
Thought to Have Gone Into the Interior
for Information.
Havana, Jan. 4.—Hon. H. D. Money, of
Mississippi, United States senator-elect
who disappeared from the Hotel Ingla
terra on Saturday morning, is still miss
ing, and thus far no clue to his where
abouts has bom obtained.
As it was the avowed intention of Mr.
Money, upon arriving in Cuba, to pene
trate the lines of the insurgents, if he
possibly could, with a view of studying
the revolution in the island and the con
dition of the country from the rebels’
point of view, as well as from the govern
ment’s side, it is surmised that he may
have found means to accomplish his ob
ject, which would account for hts dis
appearance.
IS THIS A MOAX?
Madrid, Jan. 4.—A dispatch from Ha
vana says it is expected that Maximo Go
mez and other insurgent leaders will soon
make overtures to the Spanish military
authorities in Cuba with a view of se
curing favorable terms of surrender.
AlND THIS IS WAR.
Huts of the Peasantry Burned and For
age Destroyed—Francisco Padron
Shot.
Havana, Jan. 4.—Several detachments
of Col. Melguizo's column, while recon
noitering at Montes, Capiaso and other
places, have destroyed over 400 huts of
all kinds and demolished all of the for
age and other resources of the enemy
south of Lajas and Pilato Hills. The de
tachments also surprised a rebel camp
occupied by a small party of insurgents,
three of whom were killed. The troops
suffered no losses.
Francisco Padron was shot In the Ca
banas fortress at sunrise this morning
for the crime of rebellion.
ORDERED TO PORTO RICO.
Havana, Jan. 4.—The correspondents
of the Madrid newspapers, Imparclal.
Heraldo and Correspondencia, now In Ha
vana, have received orders from their re
spective officers to proceed to the island
of Porto Rico at the beginning of the
month of March, and there await in
structions.
FOREIGN INTERVENTION.
Berlin, Jan. 4.—The Tageblatt asserts
that Fiance and Russia have agreed to
Intervene at Washington to prevent a
breach between the United States and
Spain.
DELGADO’S CONDITION.
Said to Be Dangerously 111 In a Spanish
Prison—Friends Interested.
Washington, Jan. 4.—The state depart
ment was informed by friends of Corre
spondent Henry Delgado, now a prisoner
near Havana, that they had private ad
vices that he would die unless a surgi
cal operation was performed. They ex
pressed a desire to pay the expenses of
such an operation, and asked that Con
sul-General Lee be requested to attend
to the matter and draw on the newspaper
which employed Delgado for repayment.
It was stated that! the department
could not undertake to interfere in the
matter, and Delgado’s friends were ad
vised to open direct telegraphic com
munication with Consul-General Lee.
WEYLER RETURNS TO HAVANA.
Another (?) Victory for the Royal Troops
—Not One of Them Killed.
Havana, Jan. 4.—Capt.-Gen. Weyler re
turned to Havana last evening, arriving
on board the ship LeGaspi from Marlel at
8 p. m.
Col. Benedlto, with his column, has
had a fierce engagement, lasting five
hours, with united parties of rebels under
the leaders Agulerre, Aranguen and
Arano, aggregating 2,000 men. A battle
was fought near Tepaste, in the province
of Havana. The Spaniards, who were
largely outnumbered, fought until their
last cartridge was gone and were only
saved from being routed by the rebels by
the timely arrival on the field of a re
inforcing column from Tepaste under
command o{ Cor. Agulllara. After the
arrival of these troops the tide was turn
ed and the rebels driven back and dis
persed, leaving thirty-eight dead on the
field. The Spaniards captured four pris
oners, but they were woppded and died
later from their Injuries. The troops had
one officer and fourteen privates
wounded.
OLD DIRECTORS R&-ELECTED.
Savannah, Ga., Jan. 4.—The annual
meeting of the stockholders of the Au
gusta and Savannah railroad re-elected
the following directors today: J. D. Weed,
George 8. Owens, Frank H. Miller, W. W.
Thomas, F. S. Lathvop, A. R. Lawton,
Jr., and H. II. Hull.
A BALTIMORE SENSATION
After Forty Years of Service
With a Bank
HE FELL FROM GRACE
Hid His Shame by Throwing Himself Into a
Duck Pond.
HAD PASSED THE THREE SCORE MARK
And Was a Defaulter in as Many Thou
sands—Five Miners Killed Through
Careles8nese of the Fire Boss
A Duel to the Death.
Baltimore, Jan. 4.—Richard D. Corne
lius, one of the oldest and best known
bank cashier's of this city, committed
suicide today. His body was found in
the duck pond In Druid Hill park this
afternoon a few hours after a shortage
of $60,000 had been discovered in his ac
counts at the National Farmers’ and
Planters' bank.
Last Saturday Bank Examiner "Win
chester drew the attention of the officers
of the bank to some irregularities in the
accounts of an out-of-town institution.
This morning Mr. Cornelius was asked to
explain the irregularities. He did not
attempt to do so, but abruptly walked
off. A closer examination of his accounts
disclosed an apparent shortage of $60,000.
When the officers of the bank learned
that the cashier had left the building
they telephoned detectives to hunt him
up. They traced the defaulter to Druid
Hill park and thence to the pond. There
they found his body floating in three feet
of water. The man had evidently held
himself to the bottom of the pond by the
weeds that grow there.
Mr. Cornelius was about 68 years of
age, and had been connected with the
National Farmers' and Planters’ bank
for over forty-two years. He was a close
friend of the late Enoch Pratt, who was
president of the bank for almost half a
century. Mr. Cornelius’ tragic end was
the sole topic of conversation In down
town circles thlfe afternoon. Hundreds of
his friends refused to believe that he was
either a defaulter or a suicide. The mat
ter caused more excitement in the bank
ing circles than any other event in years.
For many years Mr. Cornelius had been
very prominent in Methodism, and at
the time of his death was a local preacher
in the Baltimore conference, president of
the City Missionary and Church Exten
sion society; president of the Emory
Grove association, one of the trustees of
the Baltimore annual conference and a
member of the official board of Madison
Avenue church. He attended divine
worship twice yesterday. He lived at
No. 1726 Madison avenue, where his body
was removed.
The National Farmers’ and Planters’
bank is one of tbe oldest and considered
one of the strongest in the city. It has
paid 10 per cent, dividends for several
years in addition to adding to its sur
plus fund annually. The surplus given
in the bank’s report on Dee. 17. last, was
$600,000. Its capital stock is $800,000.
FIVE MINER'S KILLED.
Through the Carelessness of a Fire Boss
In a Coal Mine.
South McAllister, I. T., Jan. 4.—Five
'miners were killed by an explosion of
gas which occurred in the Anderson
mines at 4 p. m. The names of the men
killed are;
MARTIN RGY.
JOE COX.
TO(M CURRY.
WILLTAM BISHOP.
SIMON P1TTY, colored.
The explosion is supposed to have been
caused by Fire Boss Cox unscrewing the
bottom of a safety valve lamp, which ig
nited the gas. No damage was done to
the mine property.
AT A FRIEND’S HOUSE.
Two Men Meet and Engage In a Deadly
Combat—One Dead, the Other Gone.
Charleston, S. C., Jan. 4.—A special to
the News and Courier from Sumter, S.
C., says: Thomas Rhame and Ralph Des
ehapps, of Panola, met at the house of
Mr. H. D. Rhame last night and became
involved in a personal difficulty, and
Rhame drew a revolver and began shoot
ing at Deachamps, who drew his revolver
and returned the Are. Rhame was mor
tally wounded and died within twenty
minute*. Deschamps disappeared imme
diately. leaving his horse and buggy, and
has not been heard .from since. It is
believed that Deechamps was seriously
injured and may have since died. A
gentleman who left the scene of the trag
edy at 10 o’clock this morning says Des
chtamps was not found at that hour.
TWO MORE VICTIMS.
Baltimore. Jan 4.—Another of the boys
who were bitten by a rabid dog In Balti
more county, a few weeks ago, and who
were treated at the Pasteur Institute in
New York, has developed symptbms of
hydrophobia and his death Is expected
within the next twenty-four hours. The
boy’s name is Lawrence Wilson. John
Buel, still another of the mad dog’s vic
tims, is also reported to be in the first
stages of hydrophobia. Should they
succumb to the dread disease, the death
list will be swelled to five, three of the
eight victims of the dog’s bites having
already died In terlrble agony.
A HOSPITAL BURNED.
Omaha, Neb. Jan. 4.—The Wyoming
state general hospital at Rock Springs,
Wyoming, burned to the ground this
morning. The ten patients were remov
ed. but one, a woman, died from fright
while being taken to the temporary quar
ters. The Ioes Is $45,000, with $15,000 in
surance.
COAL MINERS TO STRIKE.
Pittsburg, Pa., Jan. 4.—About 1,200 coal
miners, employed in coal mihes along the
Wheeling division Of the Baltimore and
Ohio railway, struck today. ..The strike
Is the result of the refusal,of the opera
tors to pay the 60-cent rate, as proposed
at the last Jo(nt .convention of miners
and operators,!
BAD NEWS FROM HAWAII.
United States Minister Willis Given Up
to Dife His Physicians.
Vancouver, B. C., Jan. 4.—The Honolulu
correspondent of the Southern Associated
Press, writing under date' of December
28. says that United States MJhlster Wil
lis, who has be«n sutTerlns^Yrom pneu
monia. for sdpne^me, has been given up
by his physicians. For three days pre
vious to the Slspotch of the letter My.
Willis’ death twis hourly expected.
TO KEEP OUT INTERLOPERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Before
the Committee.
FIVE DOLLARS A POUND
Asked to Be Put on Sumatra Wrappers and
Those From Cuba.
FLORIDA MANUFACTURERS KICK
Claiming this to Be an Unfair Duty-Chair
man McMillin Asks Questions Which
Show He Is Not Ignorant
of Tariff Topics.
Washington', Jan. 4.—Tobacco and the
schedule thereof being schedule F of the
existing tariff law, was the subject of
a 'hearing before the committee on ways
and means this morning. The National
Association of Cigar Manufacturers of
the United SSates was represented by
these gentlemen: Moses Knahn, of Cin
cinnati, president: Maurice S. Wise, of
New York, secretary: Walter A. Shiffer,
of New York; -George Smith, of King
ston, N. Y.; Richard T. Gumbert, of Phil
adelphia; John H. Hernsheim, of New Or
leans, and Mr. Allen, of Philadelphia.
I The Leaf Tobacco Board of Trade of
New York, was represented by P. A.
Schroder, Joseph F. Culllnan and Her
man Verterland, of New York.
Mr. Michael Tobin, of BaldwinsVllle,
N. Y„ was the first speaker. He said
he had teen apoplnted by the New York
State Tobacco association. The tobacco
growers of New York were badly in need
of relief at the hands of congress. They
had -offered through the lmportatlnon of
Sumatra tobacco to the extent that their
production had flallen from 35,000 cases
annually to 12,000 cases. He thought that
a return to-the rate of duty imposed by
the McKinley bill, $1.50 per pound, on
Sumatra wrapper, would be adequate to
protect the domestic producer.
The chairman asked Mr. Tobin if he
could account for the fact that the for
eign price of Sumatra wrappers had gone
up in the same proportion as the rate of
duty had been reduced—from $2 a pound
under the McKinley act to $1.50 under the
Wilson act, but Mr. Tobin could give no
reason for it, unle&3 it was under the law
of supply and demand.
The chairman, however, intimated his
opinion to be that the foreigners had
simply taken advantage of the reduction
of duty.
fhc ra.'xt witness was Mr. J. S. Van
ddcser. of Horseheads, N. Y., who said
that he represented the tobacco growers
of the Chemung valley, which comprised
a few counties in southern New York
and a .lew of the northern counties of
Permslyvanla. He argued that $2 a pound
on wrappers, while an apparently exor
bitant tax ad valorem, was not really ex
orbitant, when the difference In the cost
of labor wafs taken into consideration.
“How is it,” Mr. McMUlin said, after the
witness had made a rather long political
argument, ‘’that Sumatra tobacco, which
cords $1.20 a pound, drives out domestic
tobacco, which costs from 10 to 15 cents
a pound?”
“It is because,” the witness answered,
"of the fooliffhness of the American peo
ple In thinking that because a thing is
imported, it Is of necessity better.”
Mr. MoMillin—You think that is all
there is in it?
The Witness—That is all there Is in it.
Mr. McMlllln—What rate of duty do
you suggest?
The Witness—I don’t want at this time
to advise the committee: I would like to
have a rate of duty which I do not think
there is courage enough in the party to
tmpose. (Laughter.)
I would like to have a rate of duty
which I believe the cigar men, the leaf
men, the growers and the smokers would
all agree to. It would establish a rate of
duty which would substantially keep out
this Sumatra tobacco, or at least cut
down its importation largely. I dare not
ask this of you, because I do not believe
you are In a. situation to give it to us.
(Renewed laughter.)
Subsequently, in an Incidental manner,
the witness suggested $6 a pound as the
rate of duty which he would like to have
Imposed.
Frederick A. Schroeder, ex-mayor of
Brooklyn, next addressed the committee,
as a representative of the tobacco board
of trade of New York city. He said his
firm dealt as largely in domestic tobacco
as in foreign tobacco, and he did no-t wish
to be regarded by the committee as a
representative of the Importers of to
bacco. The last time he had appeared
before the committee, was in 181)0, and
he had then protested on behalf of the
Importers against a differential rate of
duty on the wrapper leaf. He had said,
at that time, that such a rate would not
permanently benefit the domestic grower,
but would very much discourage and In
jure the business of cigar making. He
Thought he could prove that what he had
said then had come true. He had put In
writing the argument which he desired
to submit and he proceeded to read It.
He recommended the change of duty
on leaf tobacco from a differential of
$1.50 per pound on wrappers and 35 cents
a pound on fillers, to a uniform specific
rate on all unstemmed leaf tobacco with
a reasonable addition, also specific, not
exceeding 40’per cent, on stemmed leaf.
As these two grades could be readily
distinguished by ocular inspection, there
was no valid objection to a discriminat
ing rate. The experience of the past six
years had amply demonstrated that with
the most careful efforts the present law
could not be Justly administered. The
, discrimination was no longer demanded
by the large mass of farmers who had
discovered that they could not overcome
the demand for the Sumatra, except by a
prohibitive duty which would be de
structive to the cigar industry. He be
lieved a rate of fifty cents a pound on
imported, leaf tobacco was all the trade
could1, stand.
The1 chairman cauea air. r>enroecier s
attention to the fact that the foreign
price of Sumatra tobacco had largely
gone up between 1893, when the duty
was $'i a pound, and 1896. when the duty
was $1.50, and asked whether the foreign
ers Viuid taken advantage of the reduction
In duty to put up the price In a corres
ponding degree.
Mr. Schoeder did not coincide In that
view, remarking that the increase in
price was larger between 1893 and 1894
—75c a pound—during which period the
McKinley -act was In force, than It was
between 1894 and 1896. Besides the con
sumption of Sumatra tobacco was not
limited to the United States. It was
used for cigar wrappers in every country
In JSurope. He added that there was r.o
market anywhere for American wrap
pers. "You might as well,” said he,
"tell a woman- that calico Is just as good
M silk; that it will wear as well and is
much cheaper. While silks are In the
market the woman will have the silks."
Mr. Turner Inquired aa to the tobacco
crops of Florida and Georgia.
Mr. Schroeder realized that those two
states produced a crop of about one mil
lion pounds, 10 per cent, of which was
used for wrapper purposes, and that the
bulk of It was suitable only for filling
purposes, and was used ao a substitute
for Cuban tobacco.
"Is It a fair substitute?” Mr. Turner
asked.
"That is a matter of taste," Mr.
Schroeder replied. "It Is used for mix
ing. I do not think It is anything more
like Cuban tobacco In quality and flavor
than Ohio tobacco Is. But it looks more
like it and will do very well as a de
ceiver."
H. S. Frye, of Windsor, Conn., address
ed the committee on behalf of the inter
ests of the tobacco growers of New Eng
land. "The only salvation of the tobac
co industry of New England Is a duty on
tobacco high enough to protect what little
Is left of the home market to the domestic
producer," he said. Sumatra tobacco
was a luxury, and he had been told by
cigar makers that even If a duty of four
or five dollars per pound were placed on
this tobacco it would not decrease Its
importation. But as Sumatra was a lux
ury and a matter of fancy he held that it
should have been taxed as such and on
this ground he asked for a high tariff rate
of duty which would allow American
growers to furnish wrappers for the five
cent cigars. Wages In New England
were 150 per cent, higher than Sumatra,
he stated.
Auer recess ivioses Aorvn, presiuent ol
the Nations,1 Association of Cigar Mak
ers, presented their case. The cigar man
ufacturers, he said, well understood the
condition which rendered a revision of
the tariff necessary at this time. They
knew full well that not only was it nec
essary to place the revenues of the gov
ernment on a basis which would meet the
current and necessary expenses, but they
were also advised of the fact that the
theory of the proposed tariff revision
would be in line with the theory of "pro
tecting American labor and American
industries." In common of all these
American manufacturers, they were in
harmony in the principles of protection
referred to, and they consequently did
not appear for the purpose of asking any
exemption from bearing a just and proper
share of the burdens of maintaining the
government, which, compared with other
industries, they had borne in excess of
their proportion.
He gave some statistics of the importa
tion and the revenue from that source,
which indicated an average duty on all
kinds of tobacco of 62.35 cents per
p nind.
He suggested a uniform duty of not
exceeding 65 cents per pound on all to
baccos unstemmed. This would afford
the growers as full and fair protection as
could be given by any tariff not virtually
prohibitory and would introduce a proper
revenue. A 55-cent duty at the present
avreage price of tobacco would be a pro
tective tariff of about 700 per cent. The
growers of tobacco were certainly en
titled to and should receive the fullest
protection possible; yet the fact should
not be lost sight of that the cigar in
dustry was a great one, which, with its
kindred branches, employed many mil
lions of capital and fully ten times as
many workmen as were engaged in rais
ing the leaf. The manufacturers simply
asked that they be not sacrificed or Ln
jured in carrying the scheme of protec
tion too far; and it was certain that no
higher rate of duty than 55 cents per
pound for unstemmed tobacco could be
borne by the makers. The manufactur
ers, he thought, were entitled to a pro
tection of 35 per pound, and 26 per cent,
ad valorem on Imported cigars.
Replying to the question as to the
amount of wrappers that came in un
fairly as fillers at 35 per cent., he thought
it was enough to cover about 3,000,000
cigai*s.
E. R. Gumby, of Tampa, Fla., spoke for
the makers of the clear Havana cigars.
It took about five pounds of Havana to
bacco, he said, to wrap 1,000 cigars,
whereas but two pounds of Sumatra
were required. It was true that only
about 6 per cent, of the Havana tobacco
imported paid duty as wrappers. No
one was deceived In this matter, as the
attention of the treasury had been called
to it and it had been finally decided by
the board of appraisers. There was not
over 2 per cent, of the Havana crop sal
able as wrappers. These goods were Im
ported in bulk and tihe wrappers selected
after importation. Until this tobacco was
unpacked, stripped and prepared for use
no one could tell the wrapper from the
filler. If a high rate of duty was placed
on this tobacco it would prohibit its im
portation and drive the makers of clear
Havana cigars out of business. As a
matter of fact, the makers of Havana
cigars paid about as much duty on wrap
pers as did Importers of other wrappers.
Referring to the request for a uniform
specific duty on all tobacco, he said that
it would probably yield a revenue equal
to the present, but If what the tobacco
growers said today was true, there
would not be much left of the poor New
York and New England tobacco farm
er.
George J. Smith, a cigar manufacturer
of New York, replying to Mr. Gumby,
said that the Florida manufacturers
performed the miracle of wrapping 120,
000,000 cigars annually, with 5,000 pounds
of tobacco. It was well known that the
law was evaded in Florida. There were
about 29,000 cigarmakers in the United
States, employing 200,000 hands, using
the Sumatra goods, and he asked if it
was fair to discriminate against these
1n favor of a few makers in Florida.
Last year there were imported, on which
duty was paid, but 22,000 pounds of Ha
vana wrappers, while there was produced
here 150,000,000 clear Havana cigars.
L. H. Neudeckor, of Raltimore, said
that the cigarmakers of his city favored
a duty of 50 cents a pound, and none oth
er. on all imported leaf tobacco. This, in
his opinion, would give adequate protec
tion and yield sufficient revenue.
R. I. Ellison, editor of the United
States Tobacco Journal, desired to cor
rect the statement made heretofore that
Sumatra tobacco was raised by pauper
labor. He asserted that the cost of rais
ing this tobacco was 24% cents per pound.
The laborer who worked the tobacco was
hired by the season, housed, fed and
clothed.
ueorge ivuicneisun, a Kiuwer oi ton*
nectlcut tobacco, advocated a duty of
$5 per pound on Sumatra tobacco. It
was, he said, an interloper and did not
belong here, and he wanted to see It kept1
out. if it could be kept out, the grow
ers of this country could make their
business pay. They made money and
were prosperous before Sumatra was so
generally used. In his opinion, Its exclu
sion would advance the price of the do
mestic product to 30 cents a pound.
The committee adjourned until tomor
row, when the agricultural schedule will
be taken up, Including live stock, dairy
products, fish, meats and salt.
A COUNCIL OF HONOR,
lierlin, Jan. 4.—The emperor upon New
Year's day communicated to the com
manding officers of the army corps a
decree expressing his desire that hasty
duels among officers growing out of pas
sion shall cease. Hereafter, the emperor
says officers must report the cause of the
difficulty or differences leading to a duel
to a council of honor and await the de
cision of such council before proceeding
further, instead of taking Independent
steps to a duel.
FULL REPORT OFTHE WRECK
Filed by Superintendent New
bold, of the L, & N,
WITH THE COMMISSION
Cahaba Bridge Fij£*y-ass—The Engine and
Coach the Very Best
AND ONLY,IC} CAUSE OF THE WRECK
f —
Ijift for jf g Jody to Beport-State Interest
S9S9Det^ ^ .d—Alabama Supreme Court
111/
Jo ivenes — Appointments—
League Meeting.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 4.—(Special.)—
Superintendent Newbold, of the South
and North and the Birmingham Mineral
divisions of the Louisville and Nash
ville systems, has filed with the Alabama
railroad commission a complete report
relative to the wreck on the Cahaba river
bridge, on December 27, in which twenty
seven lives were lost. The railroad com
pany’s report is full of interest. It shows
apparently beyond question that the dis
aster was the result of a criminal and
diabolical attempt to wreck the train.
The report shows that the bridge and
the track over it are the property of the
Southern Railway company, and that the
Louisville and Nashville division operates
trains over it under contract. The report
shows the train was 'on time when the
accident occurred; that the engine was
one of the newest and best in the service,
being made by the Rogers Locomotive
works, and being rated by them so high
that it was placed on exhibition by them
at the Atlanta exposition as a specimen
of their tine work.
The cars were new, having beer, built
at the works at Decatur within the past
eight months and having been operated
on this division only for four months.
The passenger coaches were also strong,
comparatively good and without visible
defects. There was nothing in the en
gine or any of the cars that could have
contributed to the accident.
The bridge is reported as being a most
substantial one. It was entirely of iron
and was built on heavy stone supports.
All of the details of the bridge were
worked out in splendid manner, the con
struction being done according to the
most approved plans. The Keystone
Bridge company built the bridge in 1890,
and regarded it as a model of its kind.
Nothing has occurred since it was turned
over to the company to indicate any fault
or weakness whatever in its construc
tion. The track over the bridge was of
heavy steel rails, was perfectly straight,
apparently, up to the time of the wreck,
in perfect condition, and had been offi
cially inspected in detail a month before
the tragedy occurred. In addition to this,
the track, which was used by both rail
roads, was constantly inspected by the
officers appointed for that purpose.
For five days previous to the wreck the
same engine and cars were used on that
run and on examination of the statements
attached to the report shows that the
total weight of the train was about 179
tons As suggested by the report, when it
Is considered that every day freights
weighing as much and more than 800 tons
passed over the bridge, the theory that
the structure gave way under the weight
of the light passenger train without con
tributory cause, appears physically im
possible.
Aside, however, from an or tnis pnystcai
testimony tending to show that the
bridge could not have been wrecked ex
cepting by designing scoundrels, the re
port states that the company has much
evidence to show that a fiend or fiends
wrecked the train. The superintendent
states, however, that he deems it inadvis
able at this time to put such evidence on
record, as this might possibly defeat the
arrest and conviction of the guilty par
ties.
The officers decline to state whom they
suspect.
INTEREST DEBT PAID.
State Treasurer Ellis, by direction of
the Governor today sent to New York
over $60,000 which, with remittances here
tofore made, will pay the entire January
interest on the state bonded debt, and
will make it unnecessary for the Gover
nor to borrow any money whatever for
that purpose.
ALABAMA SUPREME COURT.
The supreme court met at noon today,
after two weeks’ recess, pursuant to ad
journment. The cases from the seventh
division are to be called this week. No
cases were submitted, and no opinions
handed down, and only consent orders
were taken.
Tomorrow the docket will be called
rpgularly, and several important sases
will be called up, coming up from Gads
den and Anniston.
Messrs. W. R. Dortch, A. B. Goodhue,
and Mr. Martin, of Gadsden, are here
representing their clients.
GUBERNATORIAL OPPOINTMENTS.
The Governor today appointed W. I.
Moorman constable in beat 10, Chambers
county, and John J, B. Allen, justice of
the peace In beat 10, Chambers county.
THE SOUTHERN LEAGUE.
The Southern Base Ball league met
here today looking to a reorganization of
the Southern league. There were present
John F. Flournoy, representing Colum
bus, Ga.: Charles Frank, Memphis; W. E.
Seay, Shreveport: Mr. O'Connor, Mobile;
Henry Powers, New Orleans; B. L Holt,
Montgomery.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 4.—(Special).—
The league tonight organized with a
thousand dollar salary limit, and with
New Orleans, Montgomery. Mobile, Mem
phis, Shreveport and Columbus, Ga„ as
members. Each club will be required to
deposit $500 as a guarantee that it will
play the season out. The last call for the
deposit will be made at a meeting which
will be held In Birmingham on Jan. 18.,
at which meeting the admission of Bir
mingham and Little Rock will be deter
mined.
THE PRESS REPORT.
New« Orleans Awarded the Pennant—Sal
ary Limit Agreed To.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 4 —The South
ern league had a meeting here today.
Present: Henry Powers, New Orleans;
John F. Flournoy, Columbus; E. V. Con
nor, Mobile; W. E. Seay, Shreveport;
Charley Frank, Memphis, and Mont
gomery by proxy. The business of the
le3gue for 1896 was finished and the pen
nant awarded to New Orleans with a
percentage of 686. It was decided to con
tinue the league for 1897, and representa
tives for new franchises invited in.
Henry Powers was elected president and
Jo*in F. Flournoy vice-president. . _BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 22. - BIRMINGHAM. ALA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 0, 1897. NUMBER 350
__ 4
VESTED IN JHE EXECUTIVE
Is the Power of Recognizing
*
Governments.
SO SAYS THE STATISTICS
Compiled by the Department of State and Pre
sented by Senator Hale.
THE STEAMER DAUNTLESS ARRIVES SAFE
And Turns Over to Gomez a Large Amount
“of Munition and Fifty-One De
termined and Fear
less Men.
CUBANS ARE BECOMING VERY JUBILANT
Weyler Expresses Surprise at Reports of
Corruption in the Military Adminis
tration—Expects to Down the
Rebellion in a Fortnight
—Three Friends
Tied Up.
Washington, Jan. 5.—In the senate to
day Mr. Hale submitted and had printed
as a document, a memorandum prepared
by the department of state on the method
or "recognition” of foreign governments
and foreign states by the government of
the United States from 1789 to 1897, tend
ing to show the accuracy of Secretary
Olney’s contention that the recognition
of foreign governments was exclusively
an executive function, in which oongress
had no part. The precedents cited were
numerous.
After criticisms from writers on inter
national law, the memorandum sets forth
specifically the states that have been re
cognized and the manner of doing so.
Among them are the following:
The French republic, 1793, recognized
by the reception by Washington of the
minister, M. Genet, as the representa
tive of the new republic.
The Empire, 1804, in which the recogni
tion of Napoleon as emporer was effected
by new credentials to Mr Armstrong, the
American minister at Paris. These cre
dentials were signed in blank so they
could be filled out in the form required
by the new government and to be ready
to be presented when Mr. Armstrong was
satisfied that the empire was "in pos
session and control of the governmental
power and the territory of the nation, the
usual conditions precedent in all cases of
recognition by the United States gov
ernment.”
A similar course was followed upon the
abdication of Napoleon and the restora
tion of the monarchy of 1814.
The next radical change in the form
of the French government whs the repub
lic of 1848. The provincial government
was proclaimed on the morning of Feb.
18, 1848, and was recognized by Mr. Rush,
the American minister, on the 28th by an
address to the members of the new gov
ernment. New credentials were sent to
Mr. Rush and the President expressed
his approval of the minister's course in
being first to recognize the new republic.
“Within a few years,” continues the
memorandum, "it became again neces
sary for the American government to sig
nify its view of another revolution of
power in France, on the decree of the
second empire and the accession of Nh
poleon III. This recognition was af
fected by an Instruction to that effect,
and a new audience in the usual way,
to Mr. Rives, our minister at Paris, with
a renewal of the assurances that the
United States gladly recognized the
right of every nation to determine the
form of Its own government.”
At the close of the Franco-German war
the deposition of Napoleon III., and the
proclamation of the republic by Gam •
betta. Minister Washburne was author
ized by telegraph to recognize the new
republic (1870). Mr. Davis, acting secre
tary of state, first instructed Mr. Wasli
burne to recognize the provisional gov
ernment if "in possession and control.”
His second dispatch was unconditional,
and directed recognition; the third in
structed him to tender the President’s
congratulations upon the establishment
of a republican government, when the
proper moment would arrive to accom
modate them. March 11, 1871, Mr. Fish
telegraphed Mr. Washburne to recognize
the government of M. Thiers.”
The independent states of South Amer
ica were recognized by President Mon
roe, who dispatched ministers to the Ar
gentine Republic, Chile and Mexico Jan
uary 27, 1823. Colombia was recognized
by the President’s selection of Mr. Sam
uel Torres as charge d’affalre, January
18 (or 19), 1822. At this time Colombia
consisted of what afterwards became
Ecuador, New Granada and Venezuela
by separation.
Brazil declared Independence Septem
ber 7, 1822, and Pedro I., son of King
John VI., of Portugal, was proclaimed
emperor December 1, 1822. The independ
ence of the empire was recognized by the
President’s reception of Senor Rebelio,
minister to the United States, May 26,
1824.
i ne ituvrauuu wi
states was recognized by the president's
reception of Mr. Canaz, as minister, Aug.
4, 1824. This federation consisted of
the states of Honduras, Guatemala, Nic
aragua, Costa Rica and San Salvador.
The klngnom of Hawaii was recognized
in 1826 when Capt. Thomas A. Catesby
Jones was sent there to negotiate a treaty
which was signed by the king Dec. 23,
1826. The provisional government of Ha
waii was recognized by the negotiation
of the annexation treaty of Feb. 14, 1893.
The Independence of Texas was recog
nized by the sending of Mr. L. A. Hranche
as charge d'affaires, March 7, 1S37, after
the President had satisfied himself that
the newly organized government was in
possession and control and capable of
maintaining its status, and after Mexico’s
attempted invasion had been abandoned.
Other cases mentioned in the memor
andum where the recognition was com
pleted by the action of the executive
alone, were those of Belgium in 1832,
Greece in 1835, Hayti in 1862, Liberia in
1848, San Domingo in 1866, Corea in 1868,
the present empire of Germany in 1871,
the Congo Free State in 1871, Roumania
by various acts in 1878 and 1880, Servla
In 1884, the various Central American
states.
The greater republic of Central Amer
ica (1896), was recognized by the Presi
dent’s reception on Dec. 24, 1896, of its
minister, Mr. Rodriguez, with the under
standing that no existing obligations of
any of the states comprizing the new na
tion—Honduras, Nicaragua and Salva
dor—should be regarded aa lapsed. The
President had been advised by ceremo
nial letter of Sept. 22, 1896, of the decree
establishing the new government.
Diplomatic relattonsbetween theUnlted
Sta es and the Independent states of the
American continental system have been
substantially, though not actually, con
tinuous since their first assumption. The
unions and federations that have arisen,
the separations that have occurred, and
the governments resulting from the revo
lutions and counter-revolutions In Cen
tral and South America have all from the
point of view' of recognition been treated
In the simplest way. When the establish
ment of a new government has been
proven and Its stability has been ascer
tained to be sufficiently fixed In the will
of the people, its recognition has follow
ed by direct Instruction to the American
ministers on the ground, as a rule, or by
a new credence; the reception of a diplo
matic agent by the President of the
United States or an exequater to a con
sul.
Recognizing foreign revolutionary or
reactionary governments “Is held to be
one exclusively for the executive and
cannot be determined internationally by
congressional action.” Instructions to
Adams and Conger, Brazil, 1889 and 1890;
Instructions to Egan, Chill, 1891 and 1892.
The memorandum concludes with a
note that says the facts narrated have
been gathered In an examination of the
records of the state department. Other
‘authorities as to methods of recognition
have also been consulted. Upon the
point of sending a minister to Initiate
diplomatic relations with a new state
both Hall and Calco (both eminent au
thorities) agree that the declaration
should be addressed to the new state.
No rule lias been found requiring that
the diplomatic agent of the recognizing
power should, to complete recognition, be
received officially or formally by the
state recognized. No law of oongress,
exercising a power of recognition by con
gress lias been found among the rolls
deposited by the state department, not
withstanding the statement of Wharton,
and repeated by others that President
Jackson on Mkrch 3, 1837, signed a resolu
tion of congress for the recognition of
the independence of Texas. The diplo
matic appropriation bill of March 3, 1837,
contained an Item “for the outfit and
salary of a diplomatic agent to be sent
to the republic of Texas whenever the
President may receive satisfactory evi
dence that Texas is an Independent pow
er, and shall deem K expedient to ap
point such minister.”
It may have been an act of recognition
when this government on Oct. 19, 1870,
directed Mr. Armstrong, our counsul at
Rome, who had received an exequater
from the papal states, to apply for a new
one from the king upon the decree of the
same date, uniting the Roman provinces,
but it hardly appears so. While nearly all,
If not all. Instances of recognition by the
United States have been examined, a
report, or notice, upon every one has dur
ing this Investigation not proved practi
cable, and no deviation of method from
the rules indicated has been found.
THE DAUNTLESS SUCCESSFUL.
Lands an ExpediU^^of naan and Muni
tion on t^^p^^bMH^Cuij||^.
New York, paper
El Porvenio, publlsh^h In tn^kity, re
ceived today the following disj^fc^frofh
Key West and signed by
referring to the Dauntleag expeditn^MBI
“Expedition was happHstwiVsembam^fc
at Sagua, in combinatio#*with Oomej^P
Hy this, it is understOoi^ that
Dauntless successfully landen her cargo j
and that the supplies wgie reacted by
Gomez. ’?
The Dauntless took the/Vlfty-one men
and the arms and ammffiiltion which
the Three Friends left on No Name
island, near Key West, after failing to
land) them in Cuba. Tlhe cargo is said to
have comprised 1,184 rifles, 500,000 cart
ridges, 600 machetes, 1,<XM) pounds of dyn
amite, medicines, supplies, etc.
Sagua, where the expedition was land
ed, is an important town of Santa Clara
province and is on the north coast. The
landing was probably made on one of the
beaches west of the port which is pro
tected by one or more Spanish gunboats.
Gomez was last reported a few miles
south of Sagua.
Cubans here are rejoicing over the re
port of a successful landing of an expe
dition after the failure of the Three
Friends and the sinking of the Commo
dore.
WEYLER AGAIN TALKS.
Says He Expects to Put Down the Re
bellion in the Near Future.
Madrid, Jan. 5.—The Imparcial pub
lishes a report of an interview had by
the correspondent of the paper in Havana
with Capt.-Gen. Weyler yesterday. Gen.
Weyler ts quoted as saying that he is
greatly surprised at the course taken by
certain Madrid newspapers in charging
that gross corruption exists in the mili
tary administration in Cuba. Doubtless,
he says, there have, been some abuses,
but those have been remedied whenever
they have become known. In proof of
this the captain-general gives instances
of his dismissal of several Judges for
fraudulent practices in the purchase of
horses and mules in the last campaign In
the Pinar del Rio province. Gen. Wey
ler says he expectB to put an end to the
rebellion in the Havana district within a
fortnight and to accomplish the pacifica
tion of the Island to the Jucaro trocha in
the Matanzas province long before the
rainy season sets in. The entire situa
tion, Gen.-Weyler thinks, presents an ex
ceptionally good aspect. He is still of the
belief that military action ought to be
allowed to a free course until the end of
the rebellion, and he is also convinced
that no reform in the administration is
now necessary.
A dispatch from Havana says the ne
gro rebels In Cuba are greatly displeased
at the appointment of the insurgent lead
er, Ruis Rivera, to succeed Maceo, and
are deserting in large numbers.
THREE FRIENDS LIBELLED AGAIN.
Tied Up On a Charge of Arming for Hos
tile Purposes.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 6.—A new libel
was filed against the steamer Three
Friends today In the United States court
by District Attorney Frank Clark.
In this libel the steamer Is not charged
with violating any particular section of
the revised statute, and is possible that
this omission was for the purpose of
charging the vessel with piracy. In the
libel it is alleged that The Three Friends
was armed and fitted out In the port of
Fernandlna on. December 14 last with a
large amount of stores, rifles, cartridges,
machetes, dynamite and a large Hotch
kiss gun or cannon; that she was so
armed and fitted out for the purpose of
conducting hostilities against the sub
jects, people and property of the king of
Spain, in the island of Cuba; that the
fitting out was done by John O’Brien, W.
T. Lewis, John Dunn, J. M. Barrs, H. P.
Fritol and J. A. Huau, and that on or
about December 19, on the high ^seas,
the first three named and other unknown
mounted on the bow of the vessel the
Hotchkiss gun for the purpose of con
ducting hostilities as aforesaid.
The libel Is for the forfeiture of the
vessel to the use of the United States.
An attachment was at once issued and
served by the United States marshal
and the boat is once more tied up. The
district attorney claims that the owners
will not be permitted to give bond to se
► cure the releasa.of the vessel this time.
FROM THE STATE CAPITAL
Comes the Long Looked-for Ap
pointments
TO FILL VACANCIES
On the Birmingham Board of Police Com
missioners.
W. C. GARRETT AND EMIL LESSER
Are the Selections—The Former Succeeds
Himself—An Important Supreme Court
Decision Handed Down— Mont
Bomerr Gossip in Brief.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 6.—(Special.)—
Gov. Johnston this afternoon appointed
W. C. Garrett and Emil Lesser for po
lice commissioners in Birmingham.
An exceedingly important decision was
handed down by the supreme court to
day. It was in the case of Drenuen &
Co. vs. the Mercantile Trust and Deposit
company, which was appealed from the
Birmingham municipal courts. The case
was reversed and remanded by Associate
Justice McClellan, all of the Justices as
senting excepting Justice Coleman.
The opinion is a lengthy one. It is held
that the claims of laborers for services
performed or material men for material
furnished in keeping manufacturing con
cerns in operation are prior to the lien of
bondholders under a mortgage executed
even prior to the performance of the la
bor.
The opinion applies the doctrine of Fos
dick vs. Schall in the 98th United' States,
which was there made applicable to rail
roads only, to all corporations, private as
well as public. The decision created a
breeze in court circles here.
The following other decisions were
rendered by the supreme court today:
Brickell, C. J.—James W. Lapsley et al.,
executors, etc., vs. H. R. Stoughton, ap
peal from Anniston city court; reversed
and rendered.
Haralson, J.—Alabama Great Southern
Railroad company vs. V. H. J. Jackoway,
appeal from DeKalb circuit court; affirm
ed.
MONTGOMERY IN BRIEF.
James H. Howard, a prominent real
estate dealer of Birmingham, lassed
through here this evening on his way to
Auburn. Mr. Howard was accompanied
by MaJ. L. P. Fleming. Mr. A. C. Crowder
and Mr. Barton, all of Birmingham. Mr.
and Mrs. Howard will be at home to
Aheir friends, at the hospitable home of
fcMr. James II. Patton, 2017 Fifth avenue,
MMir tomorrow.
ytthe Hons. S. W. John, "William A.
^^■lker and Robert J. Lowe are in the
^attending supreme court.
^BTt^®Rosa Sloss, one of Birmingham’s
Vlien^gded in the city, the guest of
Ss&jflPWie Randolph. Miss Sloss is
a favorite here, as well as in Blr
m»eham®phe returned home tonight.
Mfmtgofflery has at last awakened to
the 'fact ‘*iat the citizens have some
rights to the sidewalks on Commerce and
other streets, often blockaded by mer
chandise to such an extent as to annoy
pedestrians. A test case is now pending
in the court which is anxiously looked
forward to as a deliverance from this
nuisance. To a stranger coming Into the
city, it has the appearance of one con
tinuous freight depot from the union de
pot to the Exchange hotel. Birming
ham’s action In clearing her Streets of
these obstructions and old, dilapidated
awnings is frequently cited as an exam
ple to be followed by Montgomery.
METHOD IN HIS MADNESS.
Buffalo, N. Y., Jan. 5.—An ej^rniination
of the accounts and (he paj^s of Fred
M. Inglehart, the attorney who was de
clared insane and sent to the Middletown
state hospital several months ago, has
brought to light the fact that he misap
propriated $54,000 belonging to his clients.
A dozen lawyers Who have been work
ing for months to find out what became of
the money have been unsuccessful in
their efforts and although Inglehart was
generally supposed to have been a
wealthy man, but not a cent of his own
money can be found. Everything he
had has been lost, but what became of it
cannot be ascertained by the most dili
gent search. Just When Inglehart be
gan to take the money he held for his
clients is not definitely known, but some
of the irregular transactions go back
five or six years. The greater part, how
ever, occurred within the last year or
two. One of the cases in which he mis
appropriated funds of a client was taken
to the district attorney’s office and the
papers are now on file there. It was not
pressed because the interested parties
became convinced that Inglehart was not
responsible for his acta and that crim
inal prosecution would be useless.
CALLED ON THE GENERAL.
Congressman Money Pays ms Kespects
to the Renowned Weyler.
Havana, Jan. 5.—Mr. Money, accom
panied by Consul Geheral Lee, today vis
ited Capt.-Gen. Weyler and was received
very cordially. Gen. Weyler expressed
regret that he was not in the city when
Mr. Money arrived. He added that had
he been here he would have invited him
to Join him in his trip to the province of
Pinar del Rio, and he would then have
had an excellent opportunity to see the
country.
Mr. Money said he was enchanted with
the little he had seen of Cuba. He al
luded to the comments that- have been
made on his trip to San Jose Del Lajas,
to which Gen. Weyler replied cheerfully
that 'he had paid no attention to what
had been said. He declared that he
would be pleased if others came to Cuba
with the same purpose as Mr. Money,
that is, to admire and study the coun
try.
,_—r
FAINT-HEARTED INSUitG'ENTS.
Washington, Jan. 5.—Senor De Lome,
the Spanish minister, received tonight a
telegram from Havana,, stating that Mel
guizo had returned to his headquarters
from an incufSidti into the hills of the
province of Plnkr del Rib, and brbught
back with him 260 insurgents who had
surrendered and about 500 non-combat
ants, consisting of old men, woman and
children, . t/ '
WILL RETURN TODAY.
Havana, Jan. 5.—Hon. H. D. Money,
member of the U pi ted States fcgmse of
repreeentativeAfrom Misslsslppt| who ar
rived in Cuba & few days agoi-wiil re
• turn to the United -State* toinwrow on
board the steamer sailing’ for.'Tampa.
Mr. Money refuser to talk about the re
1 suit* of his visit.
St. Stanislaus Polish Church
Trouble Again Started.
FOUR MEN BADLY BEATEN
By Infuriated Men While Trying to Protect
the Parish Priest.
FEARS OF FURTHER THOUBLES
An Allegheny, Pa., Bank Cashier, Short in
His Aooounts, Suioides—Train Goes
Through a Trestle and Six Peo
ple Badly Injured.
I
Ray City, Mich., Jan. 5.—The St. Stan
islaus Polish church troubles, which have
been agitating the communicants of that
parish for more than a year, broke out
afreBh today and a riot resulted, in which
on. man was shot and severely injured
and several others badly hurt by being
beaten with clubs.
'The injured are:
JOSEPH BARTKOWTAK, shot in neck
and breast. ,
JAMES STAZHINSKI, beaten into In
sensibility with clubs.
ALEX YONKOWJAK, severely beaten
with clubs.
POLICE OFFICER FITZGERALD,
beaten with clubs.
The trouble started yesterday, when
Father Bogacki, the priest of St. Stanis
laus parish, refused to celebrate mass
over the remains of a member of St.
Michael's society. He also refused to
give up the banner of the society, which
was in the church, and a riot was only
averted at that time by the priest de
livering the banner to the infuriated
Poles.
The warring faction held a meeting las£.
night and decided to reopen the war.
Shortly after 10 o’clock this morning a
mob began to gather about the church
and parsonage. They demanded that
Father Bogacki and his body guard leave
the building, which the priest refused to
do. Then the mob attacked the parson
age. The handful of police which had
been stationed about the house were
powerless.
A fusilade of stones, bricks, clubs, and
every handy missile was directed against
the house. An attempt was made to
break in the front door, when Officer Fitz
gerald, who was on duty inside the house,
fired at the leader, Joseph Bartkowlak,
two bullets striking him, one in the neck
and the other in the breast. In the
meantime, James Stazhlnskl, Joseph Se
cokl and Alex Yonkowjak, of Father
Bogacki’s bodyguard, 'tried teg-escape by
jumping from the windows. Seeokl man
aged get away from the mob, but Sta
hins'it and Yonkowjak were nearly beat
en to death before the police could res
cue them.
Father Bogacki and the rest of his
body guard took refuge in the cellar,
where they remained until 1 o’clock this
afternoon, when an agreement was reach
ed whereby Father Bogacki and Officer
Fitzgerald were promised a safe pas
sage if they would vacate the bouse.
When the priest and officer appeared the
latter became scared and started to run.
He was clubbed several times 'over the
head, but managed to leave the mob be
hind and gave himself up to the authori
ties at the Central station. Bogacki was
not molested and was driven to St. James
parsonage. After the priest had vacated
the crowd slowly dispersed. During the
riot it is said several shots were fired.
There is fear that the Poles will set fire
to the parsonage tonight and the fire de
partment men have been warned to pro
tect the hose from being out In case a fire
is started.
LOSS WILL BE GREAT.
Poplar Bluff, Mo., Jan. 5.—Railroad
communication with the north Is entirely
cut off. Eight hundred feet of track and
roadbed of the Iron Mountain road were
washed out about daylight this morning.
No trains have arrived since 7 o’clock
last night. Black river is out of Its
banks and still rising. The lower part
of the city is flooded, and people have
been forced to leave their houses. The
Popular Bluff Lumber company’s mam
moth works were closed today by the
high water. The river is higher than for
five years. The loss to farmers from
flooded lands will be great.
-o
THROUGH A TRESTLE,
But, -Remarkable to Say, No Lives Were
Lost—Six Injured.
Carson, la., Jan. 5.—A passenger train
on the Carson branch of the Chicago,
Burlington and Quncy road was wrecked
near here this morning. The rear coach
left the rails while passing over a trestle
and dropped to the bottom of a ravine.
It took Are from the stove and was de
stroyed; the bridge also burned. By hard
work trainmen and uninjured passengers
rescued the injured and prevented loss of
life by Are, though some of the Injured
may yet die.
INJURED:
ROBERT AIKEN'S, of Henderson; will
probably dile of Internal hurts.
WILLIAM MANN, of Sidney; will
probably die*
WILLIAM LAMB, express agent; prob
ably fatally hurt.
JOHN 3BARLES, conductor; will re
cover.
MISS MAT PAUL, of Henderson.
BERT CURRAN, brakeman; shoulder
dislocated.
CASHIER CORNELIUS,
Of the Baltimore Bank, Leaves a Short
age of Less Than $50,000.
Baltimore, . Md., Jan. 6.—The direc
tors announced that the bank had
on hand between $400,000 and $500,
000 In cash, and was ready to meet any
demands. Of this amount, $200,000 Is In
gold, the largest sunn In this metal car
ried by any Baltimore bank. The direct
ors also announced that the Investiga
tions so far made Indicated Cornelius’
shortage to be less than $50,000, and that
the bank was protected to the extent of
$50,000 through his bond in the Employ
ers’ Liability corporation of London.
Along with this announcement came the
statement that the hank’s surplus of
$600,000 was absolutely unimpaired.
No bank official In Baltimore bore a
more enviable reputation for integrity
and Adellty than did Mr. Cornelius. The
news of his sulqlde and shortage created
a great sensation in Ananclal, banking
and religious circles, which continues to
day. Everybody .'s asking what <ttd he
do with the money? Nothing has yet
developed -whereby the question might
be answered with any degree of certain
ty. If he speculated It was without the
knowledge of his closest friends. What
tempted him to prove unworthy of his
trust and drove him to self-destruction
may never be revealed.
ARKANSAS FLOOD SWEPT.
Little Rock, Ark., Jan. B.—As a. result of
Saturday night’s storm and subsequent
heavy rain the Arkansas river and its
tributaries have risen greatly and flooded
the low lands, doing great damage to
farmers and carrying away much valu
able lumber. The railroads have suffered
greatly and all trains have been delayed
from ten to twelve hours. The greatest
damage to the Iron Mountain tracks by
the storm was near Games, White coun
ty, where a cloudbuist flooded the whole
country and turned Btill creek into a
roaring river. About fifteen hundred feet
of the roadbed was washed out, but is
now repaired. The Arkansas river has
risen four feet at Fort Smith, three and
one-half feet at Dardan^lle and five feet
and one inch at Little Rock in the past
twenty-four hours.
BANK CASHIER SUICIDES.
Pittsburg, Pa., Jan. 5.—Christian
Schauer, Jr., cashier and treasurer of the
national bank for pavings In Allegheny,
committed suicide this morning by hang
ing himself in a closet at the Allegheny
gymnasium. His lifeless body was dis
covered by the Janitor, who summoned
physicians who made efforts at resurrec
tion but they were unavailing. It is sup
posed that Schauer wap laboring under a
fit of insanity caused by illness. An ex
amination of his affairs at the bank
showed them to be all right. He leaves
a widow. Schauer has been in the bank
ing business for many years and was well
known.
VICTIMS OF THE BLIZZARD.
Fargo, N. D., Jan. 5.—News has just
reached Fargo of the death of Edward
and John Pettit, in the blizzard of Sun
day. They were caught not far from
their home at Hunter, twenty miles from
this city, and were frozen to death.
SOMETHING JFII BREEZE
Created in Local Circles By the
Appointments
OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
-
Of Police Commissioners of Birmingham—Mr.
Crawford Resigns and Mr. Lesser Says
He Positively Will Not Accept.
The long looked for appointments to
fill existing vacancies on the board of
police commisisoners of this city were an
nounced by Gov. Johnston yesterday. His
excellency named 'Mr. W. C. Garrett to
succeed himself, and Mr. Emil Lesser
to succeed Mr. T. F. Thornton.
The announcement of the Governor's
choice created quite a breeze In many
circles, and subsequent events raised a
perfect wind storm, as it were.
The vacancies on the board occurred
by limitation at midnight, December 31,
1896 .Messrs Garrett and Thornton hav
ing served their full terms. Mr. Garrett
was a oandidate for reappointment, while
Mr. Thornton did not enter the list. Both
gentlemen during their terms of service
were always prompt at the meetings of
the board and participated in the many
deliberations of that body.
THE WIND RISES.
Hardly had the announcement been
made when it beoame common talk that
Mr. Webb W. Crawford, appointed Jan
uary 1, 1896, by Gov. William C. Oates,
had tendered his resignation to Gov.
Johnston.
Mr. Crawford was seen at his home on
the South Highlands last night and to
the query as to the correctness of the
report, replied, with his usual pleasant
smile: "I wired the Governor this af
ternoon tendering him my resignation
as a member of the police commission of
Birmingham and requested that he ac
cept the same.”
Mr. Crawford did not assign any rea
son for his action nor was he interrogated
in that direction, the reporter feeling
that Mr. Crawford had the right to re
sign if he chose so to do, without ex
plaining his action- either to the Governor
or a newspaper man.
THE SECOND WIND.
The second breeze came in the shape
of an announcement that Mr. Emil Les
ser had declined the honor tendered him
by the chief executive. Mr. Lesser was
seen at a late hour last night by a State
Herald reporter and to the query as to
the correctness of the rumor, replied very
courteously:
“I have received no official notification
as to my appointment, excepting a tele
gram from the Governor’s private secre
tary and I must say that I cannot and
will not accept the appointment.”
And the matter thus stands.
THE POPE WELL AGAIN.
^ Rome, Jan. 5.—The pope, who was
slightly Indosposed yesterday, through
fatigue, consequent upon the recent New
Year’s reception, has recovered his nor
mal health. His holiness received Cardi
nal Rampolla, the papal secretary of
state, today, and will celebrate a ponti
ficial mass tomorrow, to which ceremony
sixty persons have been Invited.
APPOINTED RECEIVERS.
Charleston, 8. C., Jan. 5.—In the United
States circuit court this afternoon Judge
Simonton Issued an order appointing
Messrs. Mike Brown and T. B. Lee tem
porary receivers of the Greenwood, An
derson and Western railway, and the
South Carolina Midland Railroad com
pany. The rule is made returnable on
February 1.
TWO SHARP ENGAGEMENTS.
Havana, Jan. 5.—Col. Baquero reports
having met n force of rebels holding a
position on the heights of Baquoro, near
Guantanamo, In the Santiago de Cuba
province, dispersing the enemy with the
loss of eight men killed and many
wounded. Yesterday Col. Baquero had
another sharp engagement with a band
of rebels at Altos Sorpresa. in which the
Spanish loss was two guerillas killed and!
one captain and twenty-two privates
wounded.
DELIBERATE TRAIN WRECKING.
No more heinous crime is conceivable
to the human mind than that of delib
erate train wrecking. In which innocents
are nearly always killed or made to suf
fer. The most cruel punishment possi
ble for man or the law to Inflict on inhu
man fiends who wilfully wreck trains, no
matter for what purpose, Is mild com
pared to that deserved. The law should
be revised so that train wreckers, no
matter whether lives are lost or not, may
be dealt with as though people were
I killed.
DOWN TO BUSINESS AGAIN
Last Half of Fifty-Fourth Con
gress Begins,
CUBA LfjT IN THE COLD
£ i- •
Release of § ^,uilly to Come Up in the Senate
^ Today,
o' _
sum / Tendance in the house
/ #_
Loud’ ^JVnendment to the Postal Laws Dis
/
cuf »jl—Final Action Today—Kentucky
(Has One Democratic Elector-Sen
ate Finance Committee.
Washington, Jan. 5.—There was no pub
lic Interest manifested In the reassem
bling of the senate today after the holi
day recess. There were forty-nine sena
tors present, only four more than the
number necessnry to constitute a quorum.
The proceedings were as unimportant as
they were uninteresting.
Mr. Peffer (pop. Kan.), read a speech In
favor of a Joint resolution Introduced by
him on the 14th of December, for the ap
pointment of a national monetary com
mission to examine and study the general
subject of finances in its practical rela
tions to the business affairs of the peo
ple of the United States. After the
speech the joint resolution was referred
to the committee on finance.
A memorial was presented from the
Massachusetts Historical society for the
repair and preservation of the old frigate
Constitution ns a naval museum, just as
Nelson's battleship Victory is preserved
at Portsmouth, England.
A Joint resolution was Introduced by
Mr. Call instructing the President to
demand the immediate release of Jules
Sangttllly, condemned to perpetual im
prisonment for his connection with the
Cuban insurrection. The matter went
pver until tomorrow, when Mr. Call is to
address the senate upon It.
The legislative, executive and judicial
appropriation bill was received from the
house and was referred to the commit
tee on appropriations.
At 2:30 the senate adjourned until to
morrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Washington, Jan. 6.—Only about half
the members of the house were in their
seats today when that body was called
to order after the holiday recess, and en
tered upon the bulk of the tvork of the
last session of the Fifty-fourth congiress.
A resolution introduced by Mr. Broder
ick (rep. Kan.) was agreed to, calling
on the secretary of the Interior to report
to the house the reason why patents for
lands in Kansas granted to the old Kan
sas Pacific Railroad company had not
been Issued to the company, and why
homestead entries upon the lands in
question were permitted to be made by
the officers of the Topeka land district.
By the tetms of the order adopted De
cember 19, the house resolved Itself Into
committee of the whole to consider the
Loud bill to amend the postal laws by ex
cluding "sample copies" and serial novel
publications from second-class mail mat
ter, which held the floor for the rest of
the day. The passage of the bill was
advocated by Messrs. Kyle (dem. Miss.),
Butrton and Bromwell (reps. O.) and Og
den (dem. La.), and opposed by Messrs.
Qulgg (rep. N. Y.), Johnston (rep. Cal.)
and Cummings (dem. N. Y.).
At 4:40 the house adjourned until to
morrow, when the bill will be further
discussed until 4 o’clock, and a vote then
taken on Its passage.
ELECTORAL CERTIFICATES).
Ouly Twelve Certified by Gov. Bradley,
of Kentucky—One a Democrat.
Washington, Jan. 5.—The secretary of
state today transmitted to the senate
copies of certificates of final ascertain
ment of the electors for President and
vice-president from the states of Ken
tucky, West Virginia, South Carolina,
Texas, Nebraska, North Dakota. Idaho,
Florida, Massachusetts, Wisconsin, Min
nesota, Vermont, Wyoming, Montana,
Maine, Colorado, Washington and Michi
gan.
Gov. Bradley, of Kentucky, certifies
that eleven republican electors had re
ceived a plurality of the votes cast, as
had also W. B. Smith, a democratic
elector. Messrs. J. S. Wedding and II.
S. Howes, republican electors, received a
less number of votes than Smith, and
each received the same number. As the
question as to which of the two, Wed
ding or Howes, shall be the thirteenth
elector, Is to be determined by the other
electors when they meet, the Governor
certifies to the election of but twelve.
TAKING THINGS EASY.
Washington, Jan. 5.—The senate com
mittee on finance met this morning but
transacted no business on account of the
absence of a quorum. During the course
of the desultory talk around the table,
some one mentioned the fact that the
nomination of Secretary Francis had not
yet been acted upon, and the reply came
that it would have to watt until a quorum
of the committee was present There
appears to be no especial desire to hurry
this ease along, and the chances are that
it will not again be considered until the
next regular meeting, a week from to
day.
CUBANS JUBILANT.
Key West, Fla., Jan. 5.—Cubans In this
city are enthusiastic over the reported
landing of a large expedition consisting
of 1.04S Mauser rifles, one twelve pound
field piece, with 200 shells, 400,000 rounds
of ammunition, 200 pounds of dynamito
and forty men. on the east coast of Cuba,
last night. Early this morning Col.
Nunez. J. E. Cartaya, and three others
came in town. It is supposed they were!
landed from the Dauntless and It soon
became known that the Cubans had re
ceived good news. Several times last
week strange Cubans were seen in the
city, but they almost immediately disap
peared. About the same time it was
rumored that the Three Friends had
failed In her endeavor to land on the
Cuban coast and Jtad landed the men and
ammunition on No Name key where
some other vessel would take them and
make another attempt to land them in
Cuba. The Cubans are very close
mouthed as to the locality of the landing,
claiming that they expect to try another
in the same place at an early date and
it would only be placing the Spanish oi>
their guard.
WM. H. PANCOAST.
Philadelphia, Jan. 5.—William II. Pan
coast. A. M., M. D., an eminent physi
cian and surgeon of this city, died at hi*
home this morning, after an illncM of
several weeks.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
9 "* ' ' “
VOLUME 22. EIEMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 189 7. NUMBER 357
WEYLER'S LATEST ORDER
Owners of Plantations Must Give
Strict Accounts.
PERSONS AND PROPERTY
lo Be Reported Within Eight Days Under Un
usually Severe Penalties. .
GOOD NEWS REGARDLESS OF COST
Order by the Government at Madrid—The
Dauntless Returns and at Once Seized
by United States Officials—An
Insurgent Defeat, Etc.
Havana, Jan. 6.—Another edict has
been Issued by Gen. Weyler, under which
all owners, managers and overseers of
estates and farms In the provinces of
Pinar del Rio, Havana and Mantanzas
shall within eight days from the date of
the edict appear before the mayor of the
fortified towns nearest to their homes
and prove, their ownership of estates or
the capacity In which they are employed
thereon. Owners of estates "Will be re
quired to show their receipts for the last
■taxes paid by them, and statements will
have to be made of the number of hands
employed on each plantation. Should
the examination by the mayor result in
the finding of statements submitted to
be correct the persons summoned to ap
pear will be allowed to return to their
homes, after having obtained proper cer
tificates an'd passes. In all cases where
the authorities discover any irregulari
ty in the statements, the person subjected
to examination will be obliged to remove
at once to the fortified towns nearest
their homes. At the expiration of the
eight days allowed for compliance with
the terms of the edict troops will be or
dered to conduct all persons found with
out credentials issued by the mayors to
the towns and proceed according to in
structions issued to them. All foreign
residents of the three provinces named
who are employed in agricultural or in
dustrial pursuits, either as owner, man
agers, or overseers, must prove their na
tionality and furnish full information re
garding the persons employed by them,
exhibiting their police documents. All
live stock found roaming the country
will be seized by the authorities until its
ownership can be proved, and all cattle
owners are notified that their stock must
be kept confined and that certificates of
ownership must be shown to any official
authorized to examine it during the pass
age of troops through the provinces.
A party of insurgents under command
of the leader Enrique Penalvora, made
an attack last night upon the town of
Arroyo Narajo, close to the city of Ha
vana. They were resisted by the local
forces, who repulsed them and prevented
the sacking and burning of the town.
Penalvora and three others of the rebels
were killed and seven were wounded. The
garrison lost one- sentinel killed.
The trial of the case of Louis Someillan,
the naturalized American citizen who
was arrested some time ago on the charge
of being a rebel and conspiring against
the Spanish government, has been set
down for Friday next at noon. United
States Consul General Lee is of the opin
ion that the charge brought against
Someillan is too weak and vague to war
rant his conviction. Antonio Mosa Do
minguez, counsel for Julio Sanguilly, the
American citizen who was recently con
victeid and sentenced to Imprisonment for
life, will appear as counsel for Someillan.
Col. Fondevlela, commanding at Guan
abacoo, has issued an order for the en
forcement of the edict issued on Jan. 1 by
Gen. Weyler, adding a clause prohibiting
the removal of objects of domestic use
to this city without a special permit in
w-rlting issued twenty-four hours in ad
vance of their removal. Any person vio
lating this order will be liable to criminal
prosecution.
A largely attended meeting of mer
chants, planters and others was held to
night in the Spanish casino, at which, af
ter a hot discussion, it was resolved to
send a long cable dispatch to the govern
ment at Madrid expressing the loyalty
of those present at the meeting and their
regret at the attacks of the Madrid press
upon Gen. Weyler. and requesting the
government to continue Gen. Weyler at
the head of the administration in Cuba as
necessary for the pacification of the is
land.
DAUNTLESS IN CUSTODY.
Jacksonville, Fla.. Jan. 6.—The steamer
Dauntless arrived in- port at 5 o’clock and
Is in the custody of an officer of the rev
enue cutter Boutwell. The captain and
men deny the story of their landing an
expedition on the coast of Cuba. They
say that the men taken from No Name
key.last Friday were transferred to an
other steamer and may have been landed
by that steamer. The Dauntless slipped
into the St. John’s river after dark be
tween the cruiser New York and the dis
patch boat Dolphin without being seen
by the men on either vessel.
-o
VERY SLICK CITIZEN.
Claims to Have Been With Gomez and
Proves to Be a Convict.
Baltimore, Jan. 6.—Arthur B Jack, a
young man who has been with Gomez’s
army in Cuba since last May, acting as a
newspaper correspondent part of the
time, arrived here last night en route to
his home in Virginia. The Cuban troops,
he says, have plenty of food, such as It Is,
consisting of meats and fruits, but their
chief anxiety Is about artillery, which is
of great Importance to them. They have
an abundance of small arms and ammu
nition and have a good supply of dyna
mite, which they use very effectively in
exploding mines and blowing up railroad
trains. He says there Is no doubt of the
death of Maceo, and states that he was
present when the body of that general
was received In the mountains, eighty
three miles from where he was killed.
Mr. Jack Is impressed with the belief
that the Cubans will win their struggle
for freedom. They are fighting desper
ately, he said, aifd are dally receiving ac
cessions to their numbers. In speaking
of the reported cruelties of the Spanish
Boldiers he said numbers of eases came
under his observation where children of
Insurgents had their eyes put out or their
hands cut off.
JACK PROVES TO BE A FRAUD.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 6.—The young
man, A. B. Jack, now in Baltimore, who
is quoted as saying that he had been In
Gomez’s camp since last May as a news
paper correspondent, was arrer'ed In
Jacksonville In October and triea and
convicted on the charge of obtaining
money under false pretenses. Jack was
sentenced to sixty days’ confinement In
the county Jail and was compelled to do
labor on the public roads. At the expir
ation of his Imprisonment, which was In
December, Jack left Jacksonville for
some northern point. He was connected
also with the force of Spanish spies that
infested this city in October. Instead of
having returned from Cuba, Jack has
just been released from a Florida con
vict camp,
DOLPHIN IN FLORIDA WATERS.
Other Cruisers Detailed There Expected
to Arrive Soon.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 6.—The United
States dispatch boat Dolphin arlved off
St. Johns bar this morning at 10 p'clock
and came up the river this afternoon to
Jacksonville.
The Dolphin is the first of a number of
vessels detailed to watch filibustering ex
peditions to arrive.
The dynamite cruiser Vesuvius is tn
route to the coast of Florida on the same
mission as the Dolphin and will arrive in
a few days.
The torpedo boats Ericsson and Cush
ing have also ben ordered to Florida to
prevent filibustering. These four boats
will patrol the Florida coast from the
mouth of the St. Johns to Tampa.
-o
ANOTHER DEAD GENERAL.
Bobs Up Very Much Alive—Two News
papers to Start Up.
New York, Jan. 6.—Delegate Palma,
of the Cuban junta In this city, has re
ceived a letter from Gen. Boz Lacret,
who is Ini command of the Matanzas prov
ince, and whom the Spanish officially re
port to have beern killed some weeks ago.
“Gen. Lacret writes me," said Senor
Palma, “that everything is prospering in
his province and the Cubans have start
ed two newspapers, which shows that
they are not always fighting. He further
states that he is expecting Gen. Gomez
in his province and is making prepara
tions to receive him. He reports every
thing inside the Cuban lines to be pros
pering.”
NEWSPAPER MEN IN COURT.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. G.—Eight news
paper men appeared before the United
States district attorney this morning in
response to subpoenaes issued on Tues
day, but they were not called upon to gol
before the grand jury to testify in fili
bustering cases, as was anticipated. Af
ter all had reported they were excused
until Friday morning when they will
'have to tell what they know about the
last expedition of the steamer Three
Friends. Besides the newspaper men
there were present several persons who
were supposed to have gone on the ves
sel on the last trip and other persons
who saw her being loaded at Ferr.andina.
before she left on the last trip. All of
the witnesses say that they know noth
ing about the alleged arming and fitting
out of t'he vessel.
FAST MELTING AWAY.
Madrid, Jan. 6.—Dispatches give details
of the recent victory achieved by Gen.
Luque over the insurgent leader Maximo
Gomex In the province of Santa Clara,
the advices saying that Gomez left 106
dead on the field at Arroyo Blanco. The
dispatches also assert that there are only
a few small bands of rebels now left in
the the province of Pinar del Rio, and
that these are fast melting away.
OFFICIAL DENIAL.
Madrid, Jan. 6.—A formal denial of the
statement that it is the intention of the
government to supercede Gen. Weyler as
captain-general of Cuba, is published in
tlie Epoca, an inspired organ, today.
VICTIMS OF THE FLOOD.
Distressing Condition of Woodchoppers
Caught by a Sudden Rise In the
River.
St. Louis, Jan. 6.—Early this morning
the steamboat B. H. Pike landed here
sixty wood choppers that had been picked
up from tree tops and house roofs In the
lowlands north of Loulslnia, Mo., yester
day. Two hundred wood choppers were
at work on the prairie lands bordering on
the Mississippi lying directly north of
Louisiana. The Mississippi had been
rising rapidly, but no immediate danger
was expected. Early Tuesday Salt river,
directly north, rose three feet, breaking
over its banks and flooding the low
lands. Joseph Lowly, of St. Louis, a
section foreman saw the danger, but ar
rived at the wood choppers’ camp too
late for them to escape. There was a
rush for the highest point and those for
tunate enough to have cabins sought
safety on the roof. The narrow strip of
high land was covered with shivering
humanity. Bonfires kept the choppers
from freezing until daylight, when they
were rescued with skiffs and rafts. The
B. H. Pike picked up many of them.
At Reading Switch, four miles north,
at the mouth of the Salt river, the whole
land for miles around Is under water.
This morning two expeditions left
Louisiana, one north and the other south,
on a searching expedition for flood vic
tims.
Three St. Louis and San Francisco pas
senger trains are held near St. Clair, Mo.,
by a wash-out. One of the trains was
due In St. Louis yesterday morning, an
other last night and third this morning.
The Frisco officials are unable to tell
when they will be able to bring the trains
Into St. Louis, but they expect to do so
some time tonight.
The Missouri river and its tributaries,
the Osage and the Gasconade, are fall
ing, as is also the Mississippi above Graf
ton, 111. The Illinois and the Mississippi
above Grafton are still rising.
CAPPED THE CLIMAX.
Altgeld, on the Eve of Retiring, Grants
Nine Pardons.
Chicago, Jan. 6.—Gov. Altgeld capped
the climax of an unusual pardon record
yesterday by granting freedom to nine
teen convicts, one of whom Is John Mc
Grath, for a decade the leader of the
Henry street gang and an arch enemy of
the police.
Five other Cook county criminals were
turned loose by the retiring Governor,
but not all of them together will be re
ceived iri the city with so much fear andi
horror as the noted McGrath. Of much
Interest to the police also is the commu
tation of the sentence of Mamie Starr, a
life prisoner at Joliet, sentenced from
Chicago in 1890 for poisoning her em
ployers. The sentence In her case was
commuted to twelve years and allowing
for percentages she will soon be free.
GOOD NEWS AT ANY COST.
London, Jan. 6.—The Dally News to
morrow will publish a dispatch from
'Madrid saying that the postponement of
the usual Wednesday meeting of the
cabinet until Friday caused a great deal
of uneasiness In the Spanish capital and
gave rise to rumors that a ministerial
crisis was imminent. It is considered
more likely, however* that Gen. Weyler
has been ordered to send to the Spanish
government good new* at any cost before
the next meeting :of the cabinet
SOUTHERN JANKS SOLID
Comptroller Eckels on the Gen
eral Situation.
ONLY TWO FAILURES
Since November 1, and of These One Proves to
Be a Solvent Institution.
IMPROVEMENT IN CASH RESERVES
Caused by Exhuming Hidden Treasures
and FlacmgThem With Circulators—
No Cause for Uneasiness Among
the Southern Depositors.
Baltimore, Jan. 8.—The Manufacturers’
Record has received from Comptroller
Eckels a statement as to the general situ
ation of the banking interests south.
Mr. Eckels says: The strength of the
banking conditions south cannot better
be evidenced than by the fact that during
the year of 1896, which embraced the
most trying portions of 1895 and 1896,
there occurred but six bank failures,
while since Nov. 1, the failures have num
bered but two. Of these two, the Bank
of Roanoke, Va., has proven solvent and
arranged to pay its creditors without the
intervention of a receiver and go into
voluntary liquidation. As against these
two failures y/e have a condition of im
provement in the cash reserves of the
banks in the south as shown by the bank
call of Dec. 17, over that of Oct. 6, which
proves how much money must have been
brought out of hiding since election day.
The two states thus tar reporting, Missis
sippi and Arkansas, show and increase
from 29.42 per cent, to 32.61 and from 30.49
to 39.65 respectively. Of the reporting
cities in the south the returns from
Louisville show' an increase from 34.90 to
41.02; St. I/Ouis, from 23.95 to 31.84; Hous
ton, 67.17 to 74.57; Baltimore, 30.89 to
35.31; New Orleans, 31.42 to 32.74, and Sa
vanah, from 28.20 to 39.46.
When It is remembered that the re
quirements of the law, based upon that
which is deemed the point of safety, re
quires a reserve of but 15 per cent, in the
states generally, and but 25 per cent, in
reserve cities, it is readily seen how able
the banks are to meet every demand to
be made upon them by southern deposi
tors.
It is a noteworthy fact that through
out the south prior to 1892 the number
of large enterprises undertaken enlisted
much foreign and domestic capital, and
not a few unhealthy booms were created,
and yet, despite all this, the bank failures
in that section have been comparatively
few^_ and the losses entailed upon share
holders and creditors comparatively
light.
It is safe to say that if the panic of 1893,
preceded as it was by three years of sud
den and unusual investment of capital in
the southern states, did not produce more
failures than then occurred, there would
be now, with the banks thoroughly
strengthened in cash means and rid of
many undesirable assets, not a sufficient
number to create any unusual comment.
IT WAS WOOL DAY
And the Ways and Means Committee
Had the Pleasure of Hearing An
other Two-Sided Discussion.
Washington, Jan. 6.—The hearing on
the wool schedule of the tariff brought
many farmers and manufacturers to
the ways and means committee room to
day. The first speaker was John M.
Clark, of the Washington County (Papua)
Wool Growers’ association. He spoke
strongly of the effects of the free wool
clause of the Wilson act, which 'he de
clared had prostrated the business in the
United States.
One hour was given to Judge William
Lawrence, the president of the National
Wool Growers' association, to present the
request of that body. The statement was
an exhaustive review of the wool indus
try under different tariff rates during
the last half century. He said the Wil
son law had stopped one-third of the
wool growing business and closed one
half of the mills in the country.
The schedule asked by the Wool Grow
ers’ association was J2 cents a pound on
all merino wools, 24 cents a pound on
washed and 36 cents on scoured, Austra
lian, unwashed wools to be considered as
washed. The wool wrowers desired the
"skirting" clause of the present law
dropped. If this was done it would give
employment to thousands of American
wool sorters and keep a billion' dollars
annually at home which now went
abroad.
As a plan to prevent a flood of imports
pending the passage of a bill, Judge Law
rence suggested that congress pass at
the present session a bill declaring that
all articles imported after the first day
of the first session of the Fifty-fifth con
gress, be subject to the rates of duty of
any law passed by that congress, when
the new rates are in advance; bonds to
be given by importers for such payments
before goods can be withdrawn.
He argued in favor of specific duties,
saying that the ad valorem system was
"the most damnable system ever pro
posed by a set of rascals.” He asked pro
hibitory duty on foreign rags and shoddy.
Mr. Theo. Justice, of Philadelphia, a
dealer in all grades of wool, spoke for
the consumerse, who he said, had been
injured by free wool. He advocated high
er and specific duties.
G. C. Moses, of Hath, Me., an Importer
and manufacturer, said that If the course
advocated by Mr. Lawrence was adopted,
it meant death to the manufacturer, and
would restrict importations.
He had too much confidence in the
sense of the committee to believe that
it would draft a measure of this kind.
He was not against an adequate duty on
wool, but he objected to a prohibitive
duty, as suggested by Sir. Lawrence.
Such a tariff would close the mills of
this country andr force merchants to
buy their cloth abroad. He understood
that the committee intended placing a
specific duty on wool. He hoped that
this would not be the case. As'far as
wool was concerned a specific'djity could
not be adjusted” to operate .ffligly, as the
conditions of wool coming from different
countries differed so greatly.
Delegate Catron, of New 'Mexico, and
J. W. Smith, of Layton, Utah,' wanted
specific duties on wool and one that
would raise the price to about 15 cents.
Tomorrow the manufacturers of wool
■wlli be heard. _
WILL MEET IN PEORIA.
Peoria, IH., Jan.'6.—A Mii*n>r the an
nual convention of the Order*f Railway
Telegraphers has been Issue* to be held
in Peoria May 7.
SEVEN NUNS SMOTHERED
In the Smoke Which Destroyed
a Convent.
ANOTHER BADLY BURNED
Norfolk, Virginia's, Postmaster Found to Be
Short Several Thousand Dollars.
4 -
FIE CAN’T EXPLAIN THE SHORTAGE
Son and Daughter of a Minister Cremated
dn the Family Residence — Train
Wreckers at Work on the Plant
System—A Florida Feud.
Raberval, Quebec, Jan. 6.—At 6 o’clock
this morning fire broke out In the chapel
in the convent here, caused by a lighted
candle near the cradle of the Infant Je
bus, setting fire to the draperies and floral
ornamentation, and in an Instant the
whole was a mass of flames. The alarm
was given by a sacristy nun, but the fire
spread with such rapidity that nothing
could be done to save the building. Seven
nuns were smothered in the smoke. Their
names are:
THE DEAD.
Mother St. Francois de Paule.
Sister Providence (Emma La Tourneau,
of Quebec).
Sister St. Ursule (Corinthe Garneau, of
St. Foye).
Sister St. Anne (Laura Hudon, of Heb
ertvllle).
Sister St. Antoine de Padorie (Catherine
Bouille, of Deschambeauly).
Sister St. Dominique (Marie Louise Gir
ard of Roberval).
Sister St. Louis (Rose Cossclin, of St.
Jean Chrysostome).
Another nun was badly burned in try
ing to extinguish the fire. The convent
and school are a mass of ruins. The to
tal loss is $75,000, with only about $12,000
ins/irance.
r/he school was (dosed on account of th?
holidays, and most of the pupils had
gone home.
A NORFOLK SENSATION.
Postmaster Found to Be Short Several
Thousand and Can’t Account for It.
Norfolk, Va., Jan. 6.—During the past
week Postofflce Inspector Lumm has been
engaged in examining the books of the
Norfolk office. 'Jhe city was greatly ex
cited this afternoon by the announcement
that he had discovered that W. W. Degge,
the postmaster, was short in his accounts
to the extent of $5,840, and that Mr. W.
H. H. Trice, one of his bondsmen, had
been made temporary postmaster, with
ex-Pi s-master James W. Long, assist
ant, the latter succeeding Gen. E. M.
Henry. Gen. Henry’s accounts are all
right, but the bondsmen blame him for
not making public Mr. .Degge’s defal
cation.
The sureties made good the shortage,
and Mr. Degge gave them a mortgage on
his property to secure them. The in
spector says that only the postmaster is
involved. He says that he has never dis
covered in six years’ experience a larger
shortage, and that Degge took every cent
possible. Degge’s bondsmen agree not to
prosecute him, and they say they do not
desire the government to do so. One of
the sureties said that he hoped Degge
would be retained-as postmaster.
Degge says he cannot explain the short
age, excapt on the ground of negligence.
He is a very temperate man, and never
gambled. He lives modestly, and it is a
mystery to his friends what he has done
with the money. He has a young wife
and two little children. He is 33 years
of age. He was appointed by Mr. Cleve
land In 1894.
Both Trice and Long, who now occupy
the position of postmaster and assistant,
temporarily, are republicans in politics.
SON AND DAUGHTER CREMATED.
Distressing- Calamity Which Befell the
Children of a Minister.
Charleston, S. C., Jan. 6.—A special to
the News and Courier from Pickins, S. C.,
says: The most appalling calamity that
has ever befallen any one in this county
happened to Rev. M. L. Jones last night.
His residence, five miles north of here,
with, the entire contents, was destroyed
by fire, his son Elbert and daughter
Mary, both about grown, perished in the
flames. Jones was absent. An inquest
was held today. Verdict—accidental.
-o
- A TIE ON THE TRACK
Turns Over a Plant System Engine—En
gineer and Fireman Badly Injured.
Tampa, Fla., Jan. 6.—A wreck occurred
on the Plant system. Just outside the city
limits, in which Engineer Finney was
seriously hurt and Fireman Gosst re
ceived severe injuries, both of Sanford
and men of families. Some villain placed
a crosstie lengthwise on the track, the
pilot passed over and It stuck under the
engine, overturning and smashing it and
the tender.
Fireman Gosst Jumped and sustained
severe injuries about the head, had his
teeth knocked out and left hand hurt.
Engineer Finney was caught under
neath his engine and had to be dug out.
His legs and feet were badly scalded and
he received severe internal Injuries. The
train was bound for Punta Gorda, in
charge of Conductor A. M. Swanson, and
left here about 6:30 p. m. The express
and baggage cars were derailed, but no
further damage was done.
TWO MEN KILLED
By the Explosion of a Boiler in an OH
Mill.
Sistervllle, W. Va„- Jan. 6.—About 9
o’clock this morning the boiler of the
Fisher OH company on the Davis-Howeil
farm exploded from some unknown
cause and two men were killed outright
and two very seriously injured.
THE KILLED:
SAM BIGLER, farm boss, who lives
at Matamoras, O.
WILLIAM AUSTIN, a driller, of War
ren, Pa.
The men were at work fixing some con
nections about the boiler at the time the
explosion occurred.
A FLORIDA FEUD.
Umatilla, Fla., Jan, 6.—A very bloody
light occurred here last n'.ght between
Jim Woodward and Will Smith, during
1 the progress of which the fajher of
Woodward and. the father of Smith Inter-,
i terra. Hie two Smiths were fearfully ,
wounded; Will Smith was cut on the
hand several times He also received an
ugly cut across the nose and another on
the cheek. He was stabbed several
times in the back and chest, with a gash
eight Inches long running across the ribs.
Warren A. Smith was stabbed In the
spine and also in the head. The Wood
wards escaped with a number of slight
wounds.
TWO LIVES LOST
By the Running Down of a Tug By a
Steamer in Chesapeake Bay.
Baltimore, Jan. 6.—Two lives were lost
as the result of a collision In the Chesa
peake Bay near Fort Carroll this morn
ing. The Meirchants’ and Miners’ steam
er, Howard, from Boston and Norfolk,
crashed into the tug Job Wilson, of the
Virginia Dredging company, and sunk
her. The engineer, James Chilerus, 54
years old, and Charles C. Chappell, aged
17. son of the captain of the tug, were
drowned. The captain and the other four
members of the crew clung to the mud
scows which were in tow of the tug, until
rescued.
Chilerus leaves a widow and four child
ren at Norfolk. Chappell's home was in
Richmond, Va,
-n
VICTIM OF JUDGE LYNCH.
Who, It Is Thought. Were Accomplices
of the Victim in Crime.
Columbia, S. C., Jan. G.—Lawrence
Brown, a young negro, was found hang
ing by the side of the South Carolina
and Georgia railroad, near Orangeburg,
this morning with a placard on his breast
saying that Judg€ Lynch would execute
any man, woman or child who destroyed
their property.
There is absolutely no clue, the cor
oner's jury adjourning until tomorrow.
Brown was accused of burning the
barn of R. E. Wanamaker, but was yes
terday, at Wanamaker's request, dis
charged.
An unlikely theory is that he was
lynched by accomplices who feared his
telling on them.
TWO LIVES FOR A DEER.
Charleston, S. C„ Jan. 6.—L. F. Brown
and Stephen Mazylck were killed at
Otranto, about fifteen miles from Charles
ton, today by John Poppenhelm. All of
the parties are white. Brown and Maz
yick hiul been put hunting with a party
and were crossing Goose creek in a boat
when Poppenhelm came up and fired.
Very meagre particulars have been re
ceived here of the shooting, but it is said
that it resulted from Mazylck and
Brown’s attempting to follow a deer into
Poppenheim’s property. Poppenheim to
night surrendered to the sheriff of Berk
ley county.
KILLED A KU-KLUX.
Lexington1, Ky., Jan. 6.—A second at
tempt was made yesterday morning to
lynch L. C. Coombs, of Perry county.
Several weeks ago the ku-klux tried to do
him bodily harm but he escaped. Yes
terday they came again, forty strong.
He fired on them, killing one, who was
left behind, and badly wounding another,
who was carried off by his companions.
The dead man proved to be Coombs’ ne
phew, John Hensley.
THE TUR7T~~ ‘
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Jan. 6.—Fine weather
here, but pretty cool for the usually sunny
south, found 3,000 people at the track.
The going was lumpy, but faster than for
several days. Rossmar, the favorite,
won the $1,000 Live Oak handicap very
cleverly. Only one other first choice won
during the day, however. Results:
First Race—Selling, seven furlongs. F.
M. B., 105 (C. Reiff), 5 to 1, won; Anna
Mayes second, Judith C. third. Time,
1:34%.
Second Race—Seven furlongs. Our Bish
op, 97 (Wilhite), 7 to 5, won; Provident
second, Candy third. Time, 1:34%.
Third Race—Selling, mile and twenty
yards. Partner, 98 (Dean), 50 to 1, won;
Terra Archer second, Master Fred third.
Time, 1:51.
Fourth Race—Live Oak handicap, $1,000.
mile and a furlong. Rossmar, 103 (Ever
ett), 8 to 5, won; Loudon second, Judge
Steadman third. Time, 2:00%.
Fifth Race—Selling, six furlongs.Broth
er Fred, 106 (Morse), 5 to 1, won; Squire
Gillam second, Woodlawn third. Time,
1:21.
Sixth Race—Selling, six furlongs. Med
dler. 105 (Scott), 11 to 5, won; Rouble sec
ond, Sir John third. Time, 1:18.
TODAY’S ENTRIES.
New Orleans, La., Jan. 6.—Entries for
tomorrow's races:
First Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
purse. Atalanta, 97; John Bewlng, Image,
99; Altadena, Irish Lady, Galley West,
102; Onaretto, Lucullus, Willie W., 104;
Gilfordham, 107.
Second Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
selling. Tern, 92; Old Ham, 94; Pop Dixon.
Bresla, Maud Lyles, 97; Kruna, 98; Prlma,
102; Hazard, 105.
Third Race—One mile, selling. Laura
Cotta, 95; Alto June, 100; Davezac, Spring
time, Proverb, Marquise, Bridgeton, 102;
Brown Jewel, High Test, 107; Lightfoot,
108.
Fourth Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
soiling. Princess Bonnie, Gold Top, 102;
Fred Graft, Tom Andepson, Recorder,
Gaston, 107; Parmesan, Sankara, 108.
Fifth Race—Seven-eighths of a mile,
selling. Eleanor Me.,99; C. C.Rumrill.Wild
Tartar, lfll; 'Mrs. Bradshaw, 102; Come
Away, Renaud, Ban Johnson, 104; Fusil
eer, 112.
Sixth Race—Seven-eighths of a mile,
selling. Harry B., 92; Elyria, 94; Jim Mad
dox, 99; Cinder Sal, Viscount, 100; Trixie,
105; Montell. Will Elliott, Pirate, 107.
STATE HERALD TIPS.
First Race—Irish Lady, Willie W.
Second Race—Tern, Pop Dixon.
Third Race—Bridgeton, Marquise.
Fourth Race—Parmesan, Gaston.
Fifth Race—Eleanor Me., Ban Johnson.
Sixth Race—Viscount, Elyria.
INGLESIDE RESULTS.
Ingleside Track, San Francisco, Cal.,
Jan. 6.—Weather fine, track fast. Two
favorites were successful In capturing
purses today.
Firpt Race—Five furlongs, maiden 2
year olds. T'he Sinner, 103 (Price), 3 to 1,
won; Racina second, Modesta third.
Time, 1:03%.
Second Race—'Six furlongs, selling.
Moylan, 101 (Jones), even, won; Yemen
second, Coda third. Time, 1:15%.
Third Race—Mile anti a sixteenth,
handicap. Libertine, 115 (Macklln), 11 to
10, won: Installator second, Lobengula
third. Time, 1:48%.
Fourth Race—'Mile and a quarter, over
five hurdles, handicap. Hello, 134, (Mur
phy), 3 to 1, won; Mr. Reel second, Gov
ernor Budd third. Time, 2:20%.
Fifth Race—One jnile, selling. Frank
K„ 108 (W. Martin), 4 to 1, won; Morte
Fonso second, Grey Hurst third. Time,
1:42%.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs, purse. Sport
McAllister, 116 (Doggett), 6 to 1, won;
Arapahoe second, Sly third. Time, 1:15%.
NO PAY—NO WORK.
Jefferson, la., Jan. 6.—The president
and faculty of Storm Lake college, the
Presbyterian school for western Iowa,
'have resigned,, and tha Institution Is
I financially stranded.
* .',f" '• -: -•
MR, CALL'SJANLY EFFORT
In Behalf of Sanguilly Meets
Approval
CERTAIN DEGREE
r—
e Refused to Request Cleve
Oemand His Release.
POSTAL BILL PASSES
GroEv^j, .• Calls for a Personal Privilege and
8/ ^ - the Cabinet Officers—Cameron’s
$ Cuban Resolution Seems Des
tined to Die Aborning.
Washington, Jan. 6.—The Cuban ques
tion was under consideration in the sen
ate today in the form of the two resolu
tions offered yesterday by Mr. Call, demo
crat, of Florida. The one, a simple reso
lution calling on the secretary of state
for copies of the correspondence in the
matter of Julio Sanguilly, an American
citizen, condemned by the Spanish au
thorities in Cuba to perpetual imprison
ment In chains, and the other a joint reso
lution Instructing the President to de
mand Sanguilly’s Immediate release. The
Prst was agreed to, and the second was
referred to the committee on foreign re
lations. In a long speech on the subject
of these resolutions, the ease of Charles
Govin was discussed quite as much as
that of Sanguilly. The statements of the
Spanish officials that Govin's d.ath re
sulted from wounds received in battle
were discredited; and the assertion was
repeated, on the authority of a person
whom Mr. Call did not name, but who,
he said, was to be a member of the next
congress, that Govin had been tied to a
tree and cut in pieces with machetes by
a squad of cavalry riding past. The two
cases, Mr. Call said, were types of what
was occurring to American citizens in
Cuba; and it only needed investigation by
the senate to "take the cover off that
scene of butchery.” As to a combination
of European powers against the United
States, Mr. Call declared that there was
no danger of such a thing in view of the
effect which it would have on the masses
of the people in European countries, and
that the sympathies of mankind would
be with the American republic In such
a struggle.
The senate bill to amend the act recall
ing the timber culture law was passed;
also the house bill for the appointment
by brevet of active or retired officers of
the army.
An adverse report from the committee
on foreign relatione on the claim of John
S. Waller, United States consul at Mada
gascar, for damages by reason of his ar
rest and imprisonment, was presented
and indefinitely postponed.
The senate Joint resolution requesting
the government of Great Britain to par
don Mrs. Florence Maybrlck, which was
reported adversely last session, was tak
en from the calendar and indefinitely
postponed.
The house bill providing for free home
steads on the public lands In Oklaho
ma territory—amended so as to apply to
all lands obtained from Indian territory—
was taken up as the unfinished business
and was discussed for nearly two hours,
and went over till tomorrow without ac
tion.
At 4 p. m., after a brief executive ses
sion, the senate adjourned until tomor
row.
In the executive session the committee
on foreign relations, through Senator
Lodge, submitted a favorable report on
certain extradition treaties with the
Orange Free State and the Argentine re
public. The request was made that im
mediate action be taken as the state de
partment was anxious the treaties should
be ratified as soon as possible.
Mr. Chandler, however, objected on the
ground that the proceedings of the con
ventions were not printed so that sena
tors could read them. Action was, there
fore, postponed until tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
After two days' debate the house this
afternoon, by. a vote of 144 to 105, passed
the bill Introduced by Mr. Loud, Chatman
of the committee on postoffices and post
roads to amend the law relating to sec
ond-lass mall matter. The principal fea
tures of the bill were those denying to
the malls as second-class matter sample
copies of newspapers .and serial novel
publications and withdrawing from news
agents the privilege of returning to their
principals at the pound rate unsold copies
of periodicals. The general debate was
closed by Mr. Loud in a half hour’s
speech In favor of the bill, preceding
which Messrs. Mllllken (rep. Mo.), Wag
ner (rep. Pa.), Tracey (rep Mo.). Morse
(rep, Mass.) and Bingham (rep. Pa.) ad
dressed the hotise in opposition to the bill.
The two hours devoted to a consideration
of the bill under the flve-minute rule was
productive of no change fn the text, as
referred to the committee of the whole,
and at 4 o’clock It was reported to the
house for final action.
Immediately after the reading of the
Journal, Mr. Grosvenor (rep, O.) addressed
the house on a question of personal priv
ilege. He called attention to the fact
that a resolution introduced by him and
adopted by the house June 5 last, call
ing upon the heads of the several de
partments for certain Information as to
the operation of the civil service law, had
as yet received no response from any one
of the cabinet officers. He felt Justified,
he said, In raising the question whether
or not congress had been properly treated
In this regard, expressing the opinion
that this silence of seven months showed
that the heads of the several departments
as well as the executive himself had be
gun to Ignore the demands of congress.
A resolution asking each cabinet officer
to Inform the house why no respeonse
had been made to the original resolution
was agreed to without a division.
At 4:30 o’clock the house adjourned un
til tomorrow.
--e
THE CAMERON RESOLUTION
Seems Destined to Go Into a Pigeon Hole,
at Least for the Present.
Washington, Jan. 6.—Although the Cu
ban resolutions were not discussed In the
session of the committee on foreign rela
tions this morning owing to the absence
of Mr. Cameron, the members of the
committee talked about the resolutions
Informally after the other business had
been finished. It seems certain from the
temper of the committe% that If the effort
Is made to have the Cameron resolutions
referred back to the committee there will
be a bitter fight and the committee will
indorse its action in ordering the report
and resolutions which are now on the
calendar. Buch effort is not anticipated
Tcontinued~on^eSona~?Sge3BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD._
VOLUME 22. EIEMINGEAM, ALA., FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1897. NUMBER 358
A MEMORABLE GATHERING
Four Hundred Democrats, Repre
sentative of the Party,
HONOR ANDREW JACKSON
Round the Festal Board, with William Jennings
Bryan the Central Figure.
A STRONG APPEAL FOR DEMOCRACY
Made by the Honored Leader- Hon. John
W. Tomlinson, of Birmingham, Repre
sents His State with Typical South
ern Eloquence—Other Speakers.
Chicago, 111., Jan. 7.—William J. Bryan
was the guest of the Bryan league at a
big banquet given tonight at the Tre
^mont house in celebration of the anni
versary of Jackson’s Day. Four hun
dred democrats who believe in the Chi
cago platform assembled In the large
dining hall. With few exceptions they
were residents of Chicago. Their enthu
siasm, when the name of Mr. Bryan was
mentioned, was unbounded, and a natter
ing display of admiration followed his
* rising to speak to the toast, "Andrew
Jackson." To a man each banqueter
arose and waved anything available, ac
companying the demonstration with
vociferous cheers of “Bryan,” The late
candidate of his party was fully at his
ease, and although tired from his long
travel and day’s work of receiving
friends, he met all expectations when he
spoke.
The decorations of the hall consisted of
a liberal draping of American flags, with
crayon pictures of Mr. Bryan, as well
as Jefferson, but none of Jackson. For
nearly two hours before the procession to
the banquet hall was formed Mr. Bryan
hold a reception in the parlors of the ho
tel. He had previously spent several
hours with his publishers, and remained
seated in an easy chair while a line of
admiring democrats filed past him and
shook his hand. It was originally intend
ed to. have the banquet on Friday, which
is the actual Jackson day and annivers
ary, but Mr. Bryan had received a pre
vious invitation to attend a banquet in
Omaha that night and he accepted, giv
ing tonight to the Chicago democrats.
The speech-making began after midnight
purposely. Carter Harrison, president of
the Bryan league, acted as toastmaster.
He introduced Mr. Bryan, who spoke as
follows:
“Mr. Toastmaster and Gentlemen:—In
view of the fact that the club, under
whose auspices we meet, has done me
the honor to take my name, I feel that
it is only just to the club and to myself
to repeat here what I have said else
where, namely, that my judgment disap
proves of the use of my name in connec
tion with democratic or silver clubs. My
objection is a two-fold one. In the first
place, I believe that a cause is so much
greater than any Individual that it
should not be burdened by any mistakes
which he may make. While a man lives
he is liable to err and his errors are apt
to injure any cause with which he is
closely identified. During a campaign a
cause must be identified, for the time
being, with candidates for public office,
but when the campaign is over and the
candidate no longer stands in a represen
' tative capacity, I believe it is wise to dis
associate him from the cause as far as
passible in order that public attention
may be centered upon principles and
politics rather than upon men. The other
objection is a personal one. I do not
want to stand for four years in the at
titude of a candidate for the presidency.
I do not want zealous friends to be con
tinually alarmed lest I should do some
thing to alienate some of those who have
given me their confidence and support.
In the past I have spoken out on public
questions which, in my Judgment, needed
to be discussed, and I desire to occupy the
same position in the future. When the
next campaign opens it will be time
enough to select a candidate and we can
then select a candidate suited to the con
ditions then existing and fit for the work
then to be done. Fully appreciating the
high compliment paid me and deeply
grateful therefor, I still repeat my sug
gestion that my name be no longer con
nected with the names of clubs.
As we are assembled upon tms occa
sion to do honor to the memory of An
drew Jackson, we may properly discuss
the relations which should exist between
the democrats who Indorsed the Chicago
platform and the so-called democrats
who aided in the election of a republican
President. The democrats who control
ed the Chicago convention earned their
right to the party organization and the
party name by whatever rule their claims
may be measured.
"If those who bolted the Chicago nomi
nees have a right to call themselves bet
ter'democrats than those who supported
such nominees, then the bolting demo
crats who bolted the bolting ticket and
voted for the republican nominees have
a right to call themselves better dem
ocrats than the bolters who supported
the bolting ticket. The right to party
organization belongs to the majority and
the right to the party name must also
belong to the majority.
"There should be no difficulty In un
derstanding the relations which should
exist between the democrats who remain
ed In the party and those persons who
went outoMhe party. A party is defined
as an association of persons who agree
upon an Important question or ques
tions and who unite to give effect to their
ideas. The money question became the
paramount issue of the day; the demo
crats In convention took a position upon
the question and made a gallant fight in
defense of the platform adopted. If the
money question was now considered set
tled another issue could be taken up and
a new aligment made, but the money
question is not settled. The contest for
the restoration of the money of the con
stitution will go on with renewed vigor.
The election has decided the presidency
for four years and it has determined the
complexion of congress for two years, but
It has not overthrown the convictions of
those wlio believe that the gold standard
Is a conspiracy against the welfare of the
producing masses nor has It changed the
convictions of those who believe that
trusts must be abolished and corpora
tions mode to obey the law.
"This campaign has shown the impossi
bility of keeping bimetallists and gold
standard advocates in the same political
organizations, and It will be a more dif
ficult task in the future than It has been
this year. To use a common illustration,
a hen Is always disturbed if she has in
her brood a few ducks which insist upon
paddling in th« water while the chickens
are content to scratch upon the land. The
democratic party will. In like manner, be
ill at ease if it has a few web-footed mem
bers who insist upon crossing the ocean
for their ideas, while the great majority
of the party are willing to find their po
litical food on American soil. Not only
is this sparation between the gold stand
ard democrats and free silver democrats
e. necessity, but it ougpht to be desirable
to both sides. If the gold standard dem
ocrats are as bad, politically, as we think
they are, wo ought not to care to affiliate
with them, and if those who suported
the Chicago platform are half as bad
as the gold bugs say they are, they are
apt to contaminate all who associate with
them. In my opinion there should be no
compromise of the Issue involved in the
late campaign, and no terms short of
absolute surrender offered those who have
deserted us. If any democrat becomes
convinced that the gold standard is nec
essary, or becomes a defender of trusts he
can leave the party and join the bolting
democrats or the republicans. . If any
bolting democrat sees the erroi- of his
way, and is willing to indorse the Chicago
platform and labor with those who seek
to carry it into effect, we will welcome
such a democrat back into the fold.
“It will be the duty of the Jackson
club to point out from time to time the
effect of republican politics so that the
work of education will extend over four
years. Instead of being crowded into a
few campaign months.
“Lei me call attention to another work
which clubs can do. They can encourage
the support of those newspapers which
are opposed to the gold standard. No
newspaper can long exist without read
ers, and unless the advocates of free
coinage are willing to support newspa
pers which represent their ideas they
must expect to be without newspapers.”
Mr. Hryan closed by bidding the clubs
God speed in their work.
United States Senator Dubois, of Ida
ho, was expected, but his figni for anoth
er term in the senate prevented his at
tendance.
Hon. John W. Tomlinson, of Alabama,
spoke with typical southern eloquence
and fervor to the tosat, “Memories of
Heroic Conduct.”
Ex-Postmaster R. M. Ridgely. of
Springfield, 111., who was dismissed from
his office by President Cleveland for offi
cious partisanship in advocating free sil
ver. spoke pointedly about "Civil Service
Reform.”
George W. Ambrose, of Omaha, spoke of
the “Past and Future of the Allied Sil
ver Forces.”
The concluding address was delivered
by Gov. John P. Altgeld, of Illinois, on
"The Character and Mission of a Minor
ity Party.”
Mr. Bryan left for Omaha at 2:45 a.
m., on the Northwestern fast mall.
AN IMPORTANT TAX.
Orders Issued by the Auditor to Assess
Against Stock of All Kind Brought
Into the State—Supreme Court
Decisions.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 7.—(Special.)—
The tax collector’s and assessor’s offices
in Montgomery are the busiest places in
town today, on account of a recent cir
cular issued by Auditor White notifying
these officials that section 458 of the code
of Alabama must be enforced strictly.
The section referred to is in reference
to the bringing into this state of live
stock after the 1st of January by tran
sient dealers, and requires the property
to be assessed as other property. In
obedience to the circular the collector
made a call on the mule and horse deal
ers this morning and created quite a com
motion among the transient dealers, as
they say they have been trading here for
ten years and no such demand was ever
made before, and that they would take
council before paying.
The traders contend that the stock
should not be taxed, because it was as
sessed in Tennessee and other states
from which it came, and to be taxed now
will be two assessments on the same
property in the same year. There are
several large dealers here from Indiana,
Illinois, Tennessee and Kentucky, and the
best information obtainable is that last
season 10,000 mules and horses were mar
keted here, and that 7,500 will be sold
here this season. This revenue from the
mule dealers will add con slderably to the
state’s cash, and according to the law,
should have been collected all these years.
The auditor says the law is plain, and
there is no escaping it, and if carried out
in all the live stock markets in the state
will make up some of the deficit, about
which much has been said recently.
SUPREME COURT DECISIONS.
The following decisions were rendered
by the supreme court today:
Brlckell, C. J.—Georgia Home Insur
ance company vs. Mattie A. Warten, ap
peal from Limestone circuit court; re
versed and remanded.
McClellan. J.—Reuben Agee vs. the
Btate of Alabama, appeal from Wilcox cir
cuit court; reversed and remanded.
Coleman, J.—Lem Elmore vs. the State
of Alabama, appeal from Montgomery
city court; affirmed.
Joe Burrage vs. the state of Alabama,
appeal from Fayette circuit court; af
firmed.
Henry W .Torrey vs. W. T. Burney, ap
peal from Jefferson probate court; re
versed and remanded.
Head, J.—T. O. Ellis vs. Pratt City, ap
peal from Jefferson circuit court; reversed
and rendered.
Haralson, J.—W. H. Denson, et al., vs.
Allen Gray, appeal from Gadsden city
court; reversed and rendered.
Per Curiam—B. A. and Tempy Clem
ents vs. John D. Motley, surviving part
ner, etc., and M. K. Clements vs. John D.
Motley, surviving partner, etc., appeals
from Clay chancery court; motions to
dismiss appeals overruled.
J. H. Savage, et al., vs. T. L. Johnson,
appeal from Anniston city court; motion
for certiorari overruled. Leave given ap
pellant to withdraw transcript for pur
pose of preparing abstract and cause con
tinued. _._
AND THE MILLENIUM NOT COME.
Washington, Jan. 7.—That Ameri
can warships1 can at least be manned by
American seamen is demonstrated In the
case of the new cruiser Brooklyn, which
has just been made ready for sea at Phil
adelphia. Secretary Herbert announced
today that a report of Commander Cook,
commanding that vessel, shows that In
the complement of that vessel 401 sailors
were enlisted, of whom but 139 were
aliens. This proportion is insignificant
compared with that of other warships
heretofore commisisoned, and It is be
lieved in a short time it will be possible in
the navy to “put none but Americans on
guard." *
The Subject of a Joint Resolution
by Mr. Mills.
SEVERAL OTHERS OFFERED
Homestead Laws for Lands Acquired in the
Indian Territory
GO OVER WITHOUT ACTION
Call Heads a Paper on the Sanguilly Case
Pacific Railroad Indebtedness Oc
cupies the Entire Time
of the House.
Washington, Jan. 7.—Several memorials
were presented by Mr. Cullom (rep. 111.)
In favor of the recognition of Cuban In
dependence, and one, from the Commer
cial club, of Chicago, indorsing the policy
of the administration regarding Cuba.
This was followed by the introduction
of a Joint resolution by Mr. Mills, of
Texas, declaring that “the expediency of
recognizing the independence of a for
eign government belongs to congress; and
when congress shall so determine, the ex
ecutive shall act in harmony with the
ligislative department of the government.
“Second, that the independence of the
republic of Cuba ought to be and hereby
is recognized; and the sum of $10,000 is
hereby appropriated for salary and ex
penses of a minister to that government
whenever such minister shall be appoint
ed by the President.”
Mr. Mills gave notice that he would ad
dress the senate tomorrow in support of
the Joint resolution. Meanwhile, it lies
on the table.
Later in the session, the senate resolved
to adjourn from today until Monday and
Mr. Mills changed the notice of his Cu
ban speech from tomorrow to Monday.
Some half dozen bills were taken from
the calendar and passed, including one
to pay Samuel C. Reed, Jr., son of Ca.pt.
Reed, of the famous privateer General
Armstrong, $16,596, being the unexpended
balance of the appropriation of $70,739
made in 1881, as indemnity for the de
struction of the privateer, by the British
in the neutral harbor of Fayal, in 1815.
An effort was made by Mr. Sherman to
have consideration of the senate bill fix
ing a uniform standard of classification
and grading of wheat, corn, oats, bar
ky and rice. Much opposition was de
veloped to it, and the bill was not taken
up.
The house bill for the appointment of a
non-partisan commission to collect in
formation and to consider and recom
mend legislation to meet the problems
presented by labor, agriculture and capi
tal, was reached on the calendar, and
was antagonized by Mr. Aldrich (rep..
R. I.) as “the most chimerical idea ever
presented to the American congress.”
The morning hour expired without action
being taken on it, and the bill remains on
’ the calendar.
Then the unfinished business—being the
bill extending the principle of the home
stead laws to all the lands acquired from
Indian Territory districts—was taken up
and opposed in a long speech by Mr.
Platt (rep. Conn.). It as advocated by
•Mr. Stewart (pop. Nev.), who character
ized the opposition to it as “pitiful hig
gling.” The bill went over without ac
tion.
A resolution was offered by Mr. Mor
gan (dem. Ala.) and agreed to, direct
ing the committee on expenditures in the
executive department to inquire into the
circumstances of the abstraction of cer
tain papers as to Pacific railroad matters
from the files in the treasury department,
as mentioned in a communication from
that department last Tuesday.
A substitute was passed for the house
bill of last session to amend the laws re
lating to navigation; a substitute for an
other house bill to amend the laws relat
ing to American seamen, was discussed
up to adjournment.
The Loud bill, in refernece to second
class mail matter, was received from the
house and was referred to the postofflee
committee.
One of the papers referred to yesterday
by Mr. Call—a statement as to the facts
in the Sanguilly case in Cuba—was pre
sented by Mr. Call, read in full and or
dered printed in the Record. It was
signed, he said, by Edward E. Robbins,
a republican member of the next con
gress.
At 5:30 o’clock the senate adjourned
until Monday next.
IN TH EHOUSE.
The debate upon the proposition to re
fund the Indebtedness of the Pacific rail
road companies to the government was
begun In the house today under an order
adopted last month, which set apart the
rest of this week for that purpose. Pre
liminary thereto an immense wall map
showing the routes of the road was ele
vated In front of the speaker’s desk to
aid the members In arriving at a clear
understanding of the situation. Interest
In. the debate, judged from the attend
ance and attention of members and spec
tators In the galleries, was neither deep
nor extensive.
When the house went Into committee
of the whole, Mr. Payne, (Rep.) of New
York, was called to the chair. Mr. Pow
ers, (Rep.) of Vermont, chairman of the
committee on Pacific railroads, report
ing the bill, stated that the time for gen
eral debate was to be equally divided be
tweeen. the friends and opponents of the
measure, and to be controlled by him
self and Mr. Hubbard, (Rep.) of Mis
souri, which arrangement was confirmed
by the committee, and Mr( Powers open
ed the case for the bill. He said it was
a plain business- proposition that the
committee had reported and It was in
tended to appeal only to the good busi
ness sense of the house.
Mr. Grow, (Rep.) of Pennsylvania, also
supported the measure, and Messrs. Hub
bard, (Rep.) of Missouri, and Bell, (Dem.)
of Texas, opposed It. The latter and Mr.
Harrison, (Dem.) of Alabama, each pre
sented a substitute for the committee
measure, with the announcement that it
would be formally offered for considera
tion at the proper time. General discus
sion will be continued tomorrow, and on
Saturday the bill will be open, to amend
ment. A vote on Its passage will be
taken Monday next.
At 6:10 o’clock the house adjourned1
until tomorrow.
I FID IN HUMAN SHAPE
Murders Five Inoffensive Citizens
and Is at Large.
SUMMARY PUNISHMENT
Will Be Meted Out to the Monster if Captured
by Determined Men.
MURDERER AND WOULD-BE RAPIST
Receives Prompt Attention After Having
Confessed His Crime—Two Steamers
Burned —No Lives Lost—The
Fire Fiend at Work.
Charleston, S. C., Jan. 7.—A special to
the News and Courier from Sumter, S.
C., says: All Sumter was aroused this
morning when the news flashed over the
wires that Simon Cooper had killed old
•Mr. Ben Wilson, his son Wesley and iMrs.
Wesley Wilson. The first information of
the hellish work was received about 9
o’clock, and shortly afterward 'Sheriff
Pierson received a telegram confirming
the report, adding further that Cooper
had* also killed two negroes—a man and
a girl.
Sheriff Pierson, as soon as possible,
organized a posse, and, chartering a
special train, left for Lynchburg. When
the special reached Mayesvllle the sheriff
received information that Cooper had
been seen to pass near the town a short
time before, so the train was stopped at
Mayesvllle and a part of the posse left
for St. Charles and the others took the
public road, coming towards Sumter.
These two parties in conjuetion with
posses from Mayesvllle are scouring
every foot of land between Mayesvllle
and Sumter.
The facts In regard to the killing of the
five people as received in Sumter at 3:30
p. m. are as follows:
Simon Cooper went to Lynchburg yes
terday evening for the purpose of forc
ing a young colored girl to marry him.
The girl and her mother by some means
escaped and ran into the swamp. As
soon as possible after Cooper’s appear
ance in the town a posse was organized
and went in pursuit of him, he having
left as soon as he failed to get the girl.
The posse came within 200 yards of him
at dne time, when he shot at them and
retreated.
He forced some negroes to go with him
and kept with them all night. He came
out of the woods about daylight and
went to the house of a colored man
named Boyle, took his horse and com
pelled Boyle's son to accompany him.
From there he went to the house of the
Wilsons, about a mile distant, where the
horrible crime was commute.
Mr. Baker, who lives near by, says he
heard considerable shooting and saw
Mrs. Wilson go to the buggy house with
Cooper to get the harness and then go
back 'to the house. Cooper following 'her.
Cooper, a short time afterwards, came
out cn the piazza shooting In every di
rection and forced Boyle’s boy to har
ness the horse to Mr. Wilson’s buggy.
He got into the buggy and went a few
yards only,-when he met a colored man,
named Smith, whom he killed, and as he
passed Baker’s house he shot at Baker’s
children, who were on the piazza.
Where he went no one knows at this
time, but he will be found. Hundreds of
brave, determined men' are scouring the
woods in. every direction and speedy
vengeance will be meted out to this hu
man fiend.
When the bodies of the Wilsons were
found this morning the old gentleman,
75 years of age, was sitting in the bed
with a shot gun in his hand; his son,
Wesley, was in another bed with his
head split, while on the floor lay the
body of the woman, her head smashed
in and her throat cut. Smith, the negro,
who was killed on the road, was found
with an axe still In the back of his neck
and his head half severed from his body.
The dead people were inoffensive,
peaceable citizens.
These are the facts as we were able
ta gather them from the excited and de
termined men, from Lynchburg, who
came into this city this afternoon.
PROMPTLY LYNCHED
Was a Self-Confessed Murderer and
Would-Be Rapist.
Macon, Ga., Jan. 7.—A special to the
Telegraph from Umadilla, Ga., says:
Anthony Henderson, the negro who was
arrested Monday night for the murder of
old man George Sumner and an attempt
ed assault upon his daughter, Christmas
week, was lynched here last night. Hen
derson was arrested near Auburn and
brought here yesterday for a preliminary
trial. On arrival here he made a full
confession of the crime. During the
night he was taken from the town lock-up
and hanged to a tree within a stone's
throw of the center of the town.
The crime for which Henderson w.is
lynched occurred on the night of Dec.
27, when the old man, George Sumner,
living six miles from Umadilla, was mur
dered. The murderer first set fire to Mr.
Summer’s barn. The glare from the
flames aroused the old man and he rushed
from the house to protect his barn: As
soon as he emerged from the house he
was shot down and then the murderer
finished his work by shooting him sev
eral times more. While the old man
was gasping his last the fiend entered the
house and attempted the assault on the
young lady, who had been aroused by the
shooting.
The negro was identified by Miss Sum
ner and a posse started in pursuit. The
chase was not abandoned till the fiend
Vas captured.
-o-—
A STEAMBOAT BURNED.
The Belle of the Coast Destroyed by Fire
in the Mississippi River.
New Orleans, Jan. 7.—The well known
steamboat Belle of the Coast, was total
ly destroyed by Are this morning at Car
rollton.
Although many engines responded to
the alarm, the firemen, were helpless to
render the boat assistance because of a
stretch of 200 feet of batture between the
levee and river. The boat was laid up a
couple of weeks ago and there was no
Are aboard of her.
The origin of the Are is, therefore, not
known. She was valued at $40,000 and
Insured in various companies for $20,000.
-o
WHOLESALE SWINDLER
Did a Land Office Business In Greater
New York—Couldn’t Produce Goods.
New York, Jan. 7.—Moritz Bauer, a real
estate dealer, was arrested today on an
indictment charging him with swindling
people out of real estate to the amount
of $100,000. It Is alleged that Bauer, as
president of the Manhattan Investment
and Construction company, carried on an
extensive swindle in disposing of land in
Westchester county and other parts of
the Greater New York. This land was
sold In parcels on the Installment plan
to a large number of Investors. It Is al
leged that many of the investors who
paid the Installments in full could not
obtain deeds to the property according
to the terms of the contract.
Promoter Bauer made a statement, in
which he said he was perfectly willing to
cpnvey the deeds to Investors, but on
August 1 a judgment was obtained
against him which stopped giving the
deeds.
ANOTHER STEAMER BURNED.
Carrabelle, Fla., Jan. 7.—The Gulf Ter
minal and Navigation company’s steam
er Iola, burned at her dock at Carra
belle last night. The Iola Is the com
panion United States mall steamer to
t'he Crescent City, of the daily line be
tween Carrabellle and Apalachicola, run
ning in connection with the C. T. and
G. railroad. The steamer was discover
ed to be on, fire at about 7 p. m. She
was loosed from her moorings and towed
out into midstream and the fire extin
guished after it had gotten down to the
hull. The extent to which she is dam
aged will not be known until a survey
Is made. The origin of the fire is un
known, but is appears to have caught
in the hold. The company have insur
ance o.n the steamer and she will be re
built. The dally service between Car
rabelle and Apalachicola will not be im
paired.
AN ACT OF INCENDIARISM.
Dallas, Tex., Jan. 7.—News from Ath
ens, Tex., says: Fire at 1 o’clock this
morning destroyed nearly a dozen places
of business on the north side of the
court house square. Six brick store
houses are in ruins. The loss is estimat
ed at $100,000. Insurance not learned
here. The file is believed to have been
the act of Incendiaries.
PAINT FACTORY BURNED.
Lancaster, Pa., Jan. 7.—The paint man
ufactory of Schroeder, Smith & Schroeder,
this city, was completely destroyed by
fire early this morning. The loss is es
timated from $30,000 to $35,000 with an
insurance of $32,000. The origin of the
fire is unknown. The National Manu
facturing company in the same building
was also completely burned out.
TWO FREIGHTS COLLIDE.
Klngwood, W. Va., Jan. 7.—A wreck
occurred on the Baltimore and Ohio rail
road, near Terra Alta, last night. Worth
ington Smith, fireman of a freight, was
killed and John Gilbaugh seriously in
jured. The freight trains collided as one
was coming out of a switch. Smith lived
at Newburg, and leaves a widow and sev
eral children.
USED THE SAME STRAP.
Wlnfton, N. C„ Jan. 7.—In Wilkes coun
ty yesterday Mansfield Parsons, the 15
year-old son of a widow, committed sui
cide to spite his mother for whipping him.
The son hanged himself with the same
strap that his mother punished him with,
he only lived a few hours after he was
found.
ONLY THREE BODIES FOUND.
Roberval, Quebec, Jan. 7.—The total
loss by the burning of the Ursuline con
vent here yesterday is now placed at over
$30,000, fairly well Insured. So far only
three bodies have been recovered from
the ruins. The search for others Is going
on steadily, but the work is slow owing to
lack of proper appliances.
THAT WELCOME RAIN.
Checked a Drought Which Would Have
Cost Thousands of Lives.
Calcutta, Jan. 7.—A meeting of supreme
council was held today at which Sir John
Woodburn stated that India had been
saved from the greatest calamity of the
century by the rains which had oppor
tunely fallen in November and Decem
ber, which had checked the widespread
drought. Further rains last week, he
said, had greatly benefitted the large
area of wheat sown. Nevertheless the
situation was still grave. Nearly 760,
000 persons were receiving relief and the
government was freely contributing
money and men to distribute It.
The Earl of Elgin, the viceroy of In
dia, indorsed Sir John Woodburn’s state
ment and added that It was what the gov
ernment was awaiting in order to give
better effect to proposals for relief.
The government, however, could have
nothing to do with appeals to private
charity. The relief funds were amble
and It could never be said that the full
resources of the empire had not been
used in relieving the distress.
DUFFY'S SLAYER,
With His 'Manager and Referee Ex
honerated.
New York, Jan. 7.—An inquest into the
cause of death of James Duffy, the Bos
ton pugilist who was seized with a hem
orrhage of the brain last Saturday night
at the conclusion of his glove fight with
George Justice at the Broadway Athletic
club, was held today. Justice, Manager
O'Rouke and Referee Dick Roche are
under bail in connection with the affair.
The Jury rendered a verdict that Duffy’s
death was superinduced by excitement,
following his boxing contest, and was ac
celerated by disease of the heart The
Jury exhonerated the defandents and re
commended that a law be enacted requir
ing athletic clubs to employ competent
physicians to examine all persons before
they are allowed to participate in athletic
exhibitions of any kind.
FELL TO HER DEATH.
Baltimore, Md., Jan. 7.—Miss Ida V.
Hoagland, private secretary to Miss Mary
Garrett, was killed by a fall down an
elevator shaft in Miss Garrett’s mansion
on West Monument street today. It had
been the young lady’s custom when the
elevator boy was not at his post to open
the elevator door, reach in and pull the
check rope, thus raising or lowering the
elevator as she desired. While on the
third floor this morning Miss Hoagland
attempted to do that, when, losing her
balance, she fell to the bottom of the
shaft, 40 feet below. Her skull was fract
ured and she was otherwise badly in
jured. She survived until noon. Miss
Hoagland was about 30 years of age, and
a resident of Philadelphia.
THE CONDITION IN CUBA
As Viewed by People Direct From
the Isle.
WITH PLENTY OF FOOD
Provid rojh Nature’s Storehouse, the ln
urgents Are Well Able to
UE THEIR STRUGGLE FOR LIBERTY
$ er*8 ®eP°r^e(^ Generosity to Pacificos a
,j as© Fabrication—Cubans Give Span*
5? ish Prisoners Time to Write
• Letters—Heprisal Work.
Tampa, Fla., Jan. 7.—United States
Senator-elect H. D. Money, of Mississippi,
arrived from Havana on the Plant steam
er Olivette this evening, and is in excel
lent health.
The mission of the senator to the is
land- was to study the Cuban question at
short range, and by personal contact
with those actually engaged in the con
flict. The rigid restrictions thrown
around the situation by the Spanish gov
ernment made his task exceedingly dif
ficult, but he succeeded in obtaining a
large fund of unpublished information
that will prove valuable to the country
in the halls of congress. He talked in
terestingly of his trip to San Jose from
Havana, and says the island is being
made a desert. Senator Money, after
taking a look at the Tampa Bay hotel,
the Casino and grounds, left at 7:50 for
Washington over the riant system.
Many prominent passengers came over
with the senator and from a reliable
source many things of prime importance
were learned.
In regard to the story published by the
New York World about the Competitor
prisoners in Cabanas prison, one gentle
man said it was a base falsification. Af
ter it came out Consul-General Lee wrote
the commandant of the prison to know if
a press correspondent was allowed to see
American citizens imprisoned there when
the consul-general was denied the privil
ege. To this the commandant replied
that the World correspondent had never
been Inside the Cabanas, and had never
seen Capt. Laborde.
When asked hqw long the war could
be protracted by the Insurgents the gen
tleman replied:
"They can carry It on Indefinitely. The
country Is a perpetual summer and four
crops a year can be made. Besides this,
the whole country abounds in fruit and
root crops which no device of war can
destroy. The yucca, yam, maiauga grow
all over the island. The royal palm bears
a kind of grain which is crushed and
used by both man and beast. The plan
tain is a great food crop, besides other
verletles of tropical fruits with which
the country abounds. There are plenty
of cattle, hogs and sheep everywhere.
These stories about the starving pacifleos,
non-combatants, women and children are
the veriest bosh and these stories of char
ity on the part of Weyler in feeding them
are all falsehoods. Where these people
have been driven inside the Spanish lines
lands are parceled out to them and they
are expected to grow crops. For a short
time he feeds them and it was on one of
these farms that the New Yark Herald
correspondent got his wonderful story of
the starving poor carrying away soup in
old tin cans and buckets at the liberal
handed Weyler’s expense.”
CUBANS RECIPROCATE.
Weyler's Tactics of Death to Insurgents
Followed on Spaniards.
Atlanta, Ga„ Jan. 7.—The Constitution
has a dispatch from Key West which says
Gen. Gomez has begun work of reprisal
against Spaniards. In an attack upon
the central trocha, near Moron, he cap
tured the Spanish garrison ofr Iago with
114 men. They were notified that, ac
cording to precedent set by their own gov
ernment they should prepare to meet
their fate. They were given an oppor
tunity of writing messages to friends in
Spain, and then, in groups of twenty-five
were shot to death.
Weyler’s announcement of pacification
of Pinar del Rio does not stand. He
left over 3,000 insurgents in the province.
He took soldiers from the military cor
don to Havana to demonstrate that there
were no insurgents there, when as soon
as he removed them Cuban Gens. Ra,oul
Arango and Castille marched into the
province of Pinar del Rio from Havana
with 3,000 more men to reinforce the 3,000
already there. This all goes to prove how
much dependence can be placed on the
statements of Weyler as to the attitude
of the Cubans. They are not afraid of
the Spanish, and not one man has sur
rendered in the province of Pinar del
Rio.
The Spanish have recently established a
military zone around the city of Ha
vana, inclosing a space of five miles on
all sides for the purpose of cultivation for
thp sustenance of the people of that city,
which shows still further to what ends
they are driven and how little sympathy
and support they can depend upon from
the surrounding country; also that they
are daily losing ground, and so hard
pressed are they that this Is all that they
can call their own. and that has to be
maintained by a military cordon from the
attacks of the insurgents.
CLEARANCE PAPERS REFUSED
And the Dauntless Is to Be Held For
Further Orders.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 7.—Although
the steam tug Dauntless is In custody of
an officer of the revenue cutter Bout
well, as a result of her last trip from
which she returned Wednesday night,
her owner W. A. Blsbee, this morning
applied for clearance papers for the
steamer to go to Neuvitas, Cuba, with a
cargo of arms and ammunition.
W. A. Blsbee, George R. Foster and
Capt. W. Meyers called at the custom
house and made formal application for
the clearance of the vessel. Deputy Col
lector C. Hopkins, who is In charge of
the office during the absence of Collec
tor Blsbee, refused to grant the clearance
until authorized to do so by the secre
tary of the treasury. At the request of
(Continued on Fourth Page.)BIRMINGHAM HERALD.
VOLUME 22. BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 9, 1897. NUMBER 359
U»OtOH)t040H)fO»0«>«+0^0»0*0*0*0*0»OM>K)+0*0+0*OfO+040*040*0*0*0>040fO*0>OtO*0*0*0»C**0*0*0*0*0*0»0*040*0»0+0>040+0*0*0«*0+0+0*0*0«340«)*<HO«)40»0+0*0+0<
JOMDAY’S STATfrHSRALD “A 1®
♦0*OK)+0 ♦©♦0+OfO>040»0+0»0*0*0»0*0>0*0*0»0>0*OfO+0*0>0+0*0+0«>«M}+0+0*0 ♦^♦^♦O+OtOWfO^HJ+OfO+O+O+O+O+OtO+O^O+O+O+O+O+O+OHJiO+O+O+O-^-^tO+O+OfO^OKlfO^O^
TWO KINDS ^DEMOCRATS
Celebrate the Anniversary of the
Battle of New Orleans.
THE PRESIDENT’S LETTER
Read at the Banquet at Chicago Was Received
With Applause by Nationals.
BRYAN’S TRIBUTE TO THE HERO
Read at a Banquet Where John T. Morgan
Was a Quest—Other Organisations
Hold High Carnival Over the
Defeat of Democracy,
Chicago, Jan. 8.—Choosing the anni
versary dedicated to "Old Hickory,” the
members of the national democratic par
ty from .the ten middle and western
states who fought for principle and the
gold standard under the banner of Pal
mer and Buckner, assembled .300 strong
tonight In the banquet hall of the audi
torium hotel to celebrate alike the birth
day of Andrew Jackson, the victory over
Bryan and free silver, and renew pledges
of adherence to the Inlianapolls platform.
The occasion was made notable by the
presence of t'he party’s nominee for vice
president, General Simon B. Buckner, of
Kentucky; Hon. Charles S. Hamlin ,of
Massachusetts, assistant secretary of the
treasury and Hon. Henry Watterson, of
Loulsvlllle. The banqueters were also
honored by having read to them letters
from the president of the United States,
from his secretary of agriculture, Hon.
J. Sterling Morton, and the standard
bearer of the party In the recent cam
paign, United States Senator John M.
Palmer, and telegrams from Postmaster
General Wilson and Secretary Francis,
and others, prominent In the party. The
letter which President Cleveland wrote
to Franklin Mac Veagh, of Chicago, was
read at the Jackson feast, in lieu of his
presence, and was as follows:
Executive Mansion,
Washington, D. C., Jan. 4.
Franklin Mac Veagh, Esq., Chairman,
etc., Chicago:
My Dear Sir: I regret that official du
ties prevent my acceptance of the Invi
tation I have received on behalf of the
national democrats of the middle states
to attend the Jackson day banquet on
the 8th Instant.
When passion and prejudice threaten
ed to obscure the meaning of true de
mocracy and pervert its patriotic pur
poses, a re-union of those who are demo
crats for the sake of principle and the
good of their country cannot fall to be
Inspiring and useful.
un an occasion when the character and
achievements of Andrew Jackson are
commemorated, the old landmarks of
democratic faith should be distinctly
pointed out. At such a time it should be
impressively taught that democracy is
not disorder; that its regard for popular
rights does tnot mean the care of only
. a portion of our people; that its loyalty
to the constitution and the law does mean
a potulent challenge of the duty of civil
obedience; that its aggressiveness does
not mean class hatred and sectional vi
tuperation and that its success should
never mean mere partisan triumph at the
sacrifice of principle and patriotism.
Yours very truly,
(Signed.) GROVER CLEVELAND.
Senator Palmer intended to be present
in person, but his illness in Springfield
made his presence impossible. Instead
the general sent a letter.
The following telegrams from members
of the cabinet were read:
Washington, D. C., Jan. 8.
To the democratic party is still com
mitted the defense of the principles of
free government. We must fight not
only the battle for sound finance, but
a never ending struggle for a Just and
equal system of taxation.
(Signed.) W. WILSON.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 8.
Official duties will not permit me to
accept the invitation to attend the Jack
son day banquet. I trust the occasion
may prove prolific of much good to the
Interests of true democracy as advocated
and exemplified by that noble patriot
whose victories we celebrate tonight.
(Signed.) DAVID R. FRANCIS.
Telegrams were also read from Ben T.
Cable, of Rock Island, ex-democratic na
tional committeeman, and C. Vey Hol
man, of Maine, who was chairman of the
literary bureau of the national demo
cratic party during the last campaign, i
A reception to Gen. Buckner and others
preceded the feast and speech-making.
When Toastmaster MacVeagh men
tioned President Cleveland in words of
praise, every man arose, cheered, waved
napkins and applauded to express tbelr
admiration of the man and sympathy
with the sentiments of the speaker. There
was a milder demonstration when Sena
tor Palmer’s letter was read and hearty
applause followed the reading or Secre
tary Morton’s letter.
Hon. Henry watterson was given a
flattering reception when he arose to
speak to the sentiment, "The Future of
Democracy.”
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
Hamlin was cheered again and again as
he arose.
Hon: Washington Irving Babb, the dis
tinguished Iowan, spoke for that state,
and his remarks were well received.
In the absence of Daniel W. Lawler,
of St. Paul, the leader of the national
democrats of Minnesota, his speech was
read.
T. J. Mahony spoke for Nebraska, and
Hon. J. McD. Trimble for Missouri.
ANOTHER KIND.
Democrats Who Celebrated the Day at
the Capital—Bryan’s Letter.
Washington, Jan. 8.—The Jackson Dem
ocratic association, of the District of Co
lumbia, held its annual banquet this even
ing in Masonic Temple, and among the
guests were many of the most distin
guished democrats of the country. The
administration was criticized for its so
called "traitorous participation” In the
last campaign.
i-ettiri were read from several dem- I
ocrata, notably Senator James K. Jones,
of Arkansas, chairman of the democratic
Campaign, and the late candidate, Wil
liam J. BfjAn. the Utter saying: “I’tc
gret that clrtumstaneea prevent my t*»- 1
brating Jackson Day with you. We
have reason to commeoratei the virtues
of the hero of New Orleans. His cour
ageous defense of the rights of the people
against the assaults of consolida ted capi
tal made him the Idol of his party, and
the remembrance of his achievements
should inspire the democrats of this gen
eration to renewed devotion to a govern
ment of the people, by the people and
for the people. His final triumph in a
struggle similar to that in which the de
mocracy wae engaged this year gives us
encouragement and hope of success.”
Among the leading speakrs were Sen
ator Morgan, of Alabama; Senator Black
bum, Representative Sulzer, of New
York, and other leading democrats. Sen
ator® Gorman and Call were among the
guests.
BUSINESS MEN CELEBRATE.
New York, Jan. 8.—Jackson Day was
celebrated in this city by a banquet at
the Hotel Savoy, given by the Business
Men’s Democratic club. Ex-Comptroller
Theo. Meyers, the president of the club,
presided. With him at the guests’ table
were Perry Belmont, Postmaster Dayton,
James S. Coleman, ex-Mayor Gilroy, ex
Chamberlain Thomas C. Crain and Evan
Thomas.
Mr. Meyers spoke of the results of the
election, and said they were gratifying
to business men.
The Hon. Perry Belmont spoke to the
tosat, “Jackson Day."
BRYAN’S ABLE SPEECH
Uponi Vital Issues Now Before the Peo
ple at a Jackson Banquet.
Omaha, Neb. Jan. 8.—Arden advo
cates of the principles inaugurated by
"Old Hickory" gathered in this city to
day to attend the banquet of the Jack
sonian club and add their homage to the
memory of a patron saint. Two hun
dred persons, prominent in moulding the
political history of the state, gathered
around the board.
William J, Bryan was the speaker of
the evening. Mr. Bryan said' in part:
"Every good law placed upon the stat
ute books brings credit to those who are
responsible for the law and strengthens
the claim to public confidence. When in
congress I endeavored to secure the pass
age of the law which would place a small
tax upon national bank deposits for the
purpose of raising a fund to guarantee
depositors against loss. The bill was
opposed at the time on the ground that
the strong banks would have no ad
vantage over the newly established ones
if al! these depositors were protected
from loss. While this argument Ib based
upon the theory that the Interests of the
large banks are to be more considered
than the interests of depositors, it has
been sufficient thus far to prevent leg
islation needed for the protection of the
depositors. I suggest that it is possible
to apply this principle to state banks in
the states where the silver forces have
control. A small tax collected according
to deposits until a sufficient sum is rais
ed, would encourage the deposlt-of money
in banks and discourage hoarding. Un
der such a system depositors could be
paid at once out of the guarantee fund
and the business of the community would
not be embarrassed as it is now when
every bank failure ties up a lot of
money and brings business to a stand
still. I believe that we should adopt a
law where we have the power to do so,
preventing corporations from contribut
ing to campaign funds or taking any
part in politics. A corporation is a
creature of law, it is called into existence
for business, not for political purposes.
Until a bank pays Its depositors In full,
It is impossible to tell whether it is
contributing its own or its depositors
money. In large corporations the stock
holder finds that his own: money is be
ing used often for the defeat of his own
political principles. Corporations should
be made to keep out of politics."
Letters of regret were. received from
Vice - President Stevenson, Governor
Stone, of Missouri; John R. McLean, of
Ohio^ and David Overmeyer, of Kan
sas.
AN AMERICAN CITIZEN
Now on Trial as a Sympathizer With the
Insurgents—Weyler Says He Attaches
No Importance to Attacks on Him.
Havana, Jan. 8.—The trial of Louis
Somolllan, an American citizen, on the
charge of conspiring against the Spanish
government, began at 1 o’clock this af
tennoon. There was a large attend
ance of spectators. Consul Genera Lee,
who recently said he thought the evi
dence against the accused was very fee
ble, was present. At the usual prelimin
aries the charges were read alleging that
Someillan was an agent of the Cuban
Junta and was in league with others to
overthrow the Spanish authority In Cuba.
As in the case of Julio Sangullly, recently
convicted of conspiracy, the defense pro
tested against the formation of the trib
unal, arguing that the accused should be
tried by six Judges, according to the law
of 1821, Instead of five, the number com
posing the court. The objection was
overruled.
Witnesses were called by the prosecu
tion but their evidence was weak, they
testifying to nothing that would support
the charges against the prisoner.
The court then adjourned until tomor
row when further evidence will be heard.
A delegation waited upon Capt.-Gen
Weyler today to compliment him upon his
conduct of the campaign against the in
surgents. In replying to the delegation
Gen. Weyler said he ignored the attacks
made upon mm by certain newspapers In
Madrid. Those attacks were due to un
justifiable Impatience. He was sat
isfied that the campaign In the province
of Pinar del Rio had given better re
sults than was expected, not only to the
triumphs of the troops over the rebels,
but also In the small losses sustained
by the troops. He hoped that Gomez,
the rebel leader, would come to the prov
ince of Havana. Should he do so he
would surely meet his end.
Gen. Weyler further said that he at
tached no Importance to the rumors that
he was to be deprived of the command
In Cuba. If he were recalled others
would do as well if not better than he had
done.
In conclusion, Gen. Weyler recommend
ed patience and prudence and urged that
all those loyal to Spain should do their
best to support her. With union, he
declared, the desired results could be
attained.
Gen. Bosch reports the arrival at Ba
yamo of the convoy which the rebels mt
. tempted to capture while en route. The
convoy went by way of the Cauto river.
Gen. Bosch says that the Insurgents lost
over 200 men killed, or wounded In the
i Loma Sorda engagement.
A DIRTY STORY EXPLODED
Reports that New Orleans Cere
als Were Heated
AND UNFIT FOR MARKET
Sent Out by Unscrupulous New York and
Chicago Grain Dealers
IN ORDER TO INJURE THAT CITY
The Entire Business Interests of the City
Aroused at the Methods Adopted to
Turn the Tide of Improve
ment in Foreign Trade.
New Orleans, Jan. 8.—There was great
commotion on the board of trade and In
grain circles when It became known that
reports had been extensively circulated
in New York and Chicago to the effect
that all the corn shipped to this city has
become heated and rendered unfit for
export. These reports first came out
through the publication of a piece in a.
Chicago paper of Jan. 5, which said that
the corn had become "hot” in the cars
and elevators and Is worthless. When
the fact Is taken into consideration that
there are no less, than 4,000 cars in this
city on the side tracks, loaded with corn,
the Injury can be seen at a glance.
It Is presumed that the New York peo
ple who are antagonistic to this port
sought to have credence placed In the
rumors. It Is alleged that the gold and
stock tickers, which are controlled by one
company, Sfent out the reports persistent
ly to all parts of the country, but thus
far It has been impossible to verify this
statement. Grain dealers are of the opin
ion that the reports were circulated for
no other purpose than to check the large
flow of corn and other grain now coming
into New Orleans.
The rumors were at once contradicted
by President McCloskey, of the board of
trade, who sent denials of the reports all
over the country. The various com ship
pers and exporters In this city and repre
sentatives of the several elevators warm
ed up In addition to the members of the
board of trade and sent telegram after
telegram to the grain country.
A large number of exporters, grain
dealers and members of the board of
trade who would be well versed In the
matter, were It a fact thqt thej-e is any
hot corn In port, were seen;and all de
clared that the publication In the Chica
go paper and the reports sent out by some
malicious persons were vitterly false.
It Is said that the stock of grajn In New
Orleans Is not less than 3,000,000 bushels,
and not one of these Is heated.
Any person that pays mucn aiienuun
to the trend of shipments from the great
northwest to the south, will have noticed
a continual system of bellttlement that
has been evoked on the part of Chicago
and New York against gulf ports as dis
tributing points for European grain ex
port and for much other merchandise that
heretofore has flowed through Atlantic
seaboard ports via Chicago. It used to
be contended that New Orleans and
other southern ports had not the facilities
to properly handle this great business and
to a certain #xtent this was correct.
Of late years the volume of business
that came through New Orleans was
handled In such an expeditious manner
that no ground for complaint remained.
The business continued to Increase and
the accommodation kept pace with the
increase. Chicago and New York got hot
around the collar at first and an attack
was made on the Crescent City through
the railroad association, who sought to
make handicap differential rates in mat
ters of shipments through New Orleans,
but in this effort the plans miscarried,
for the Central stood up for the city in
splendid fashion, remaining the staunch
ally of New Orleans.
Grain shipments continued to pour into
the city. Not only did Illinois send Its
produce, but the attention of Kansas was
drawn, and It was not very long before
the golden stream from "bleeding Kan
sas” came our way. The situation grew
serious beyond peradventure, and some
thing drastic in the way of a block was
decided upon. The brilliant but un
scrupulous energies of the chag-rined
grain manipulators of New York and ChU
cago was Invoked and ft shrewd scheme
was set on foot.
The plan 18 this: European ports of
receipt were flooded with cablegrams and
letters warning them to beware of Indian
corn shipments this season that came
through gulf coast ports, as it was known
that the cereal was (n. had shape, being
in a heated condition. Very naturally
this information caused a great hulla
ballo in the old country, and grain ex
port houses in the south, and particular
ly In this city, are yet inundated with let
ters from European sports begging for the
straight of the story that has trickled
across the ocean via Chicago and New
York—principally Chicago, so it would
appear. Of course the grain men of this
city are highly indignant over the fab
rication, and sotne of them, when inter
viewed this morrting, were highly exer
cised. The whole story Is exploded.
POSTPONED AGAIN,
Is the Trial of the Libel Suit Against the
Three Friends.
Jacksonville. Jan. 8—The investiga
tion of the cases against the persons
charged in the libel agalnpt the Three
Friends with mounting ‘a. gpty'on the deck
of the vessel with InUatvto commit hos
tilities against the king of Spain has not
yet come before the grand jury of the
United States court.
Eight Jacksonville newspaper men were
subpoenaed to_ appear before the Jury,
but the dlstrlat attorney has net been
ready to take up tbieyjgaseand thgy have
been excused from day to day. The at
torney says thgt the. cane will be taken
up tomorrow or Monday. Every person
believed to have-been otrtbe'vefwer on her
last trip will have to appear before the
Jury. The possibility of being Indicted
for piracy has caused some of" the men
considerable uneasiness. J. A. Huau, the
representative of the' Cuban Junta, is less
concerned than any of the others, tor he
says he was. in bed at the time the gov
ernment chargen.hlfn with Assisting in
Atting out the„vfssel> for >her last trip.
; ,
BETRAYED _£ RELATIVES
Simon Cooper, the Quintuple
Negro Murderer,
RIDDLED WITH BULLETS
His Only Desire Was to Kill His Brother, Who
Betrayed Him.
PENSACOLA’S LIST OF CASUALTIES
Three If egroea Steel an Overcoat—One Dead
Another Mortally Wounded—Seven Men
Carved at a Christening—Driven to
Suicides by Enforced Idleness.
Columbia, S. C., Jan. 8.—Simon Cooper,
betrayed by his half brother and uncle,
was located in his uncle's house five miles
from Sumter early this morning and the
building surrounded by a posse of twenty
men under Sheriff Pierson, of Sumter.
Cooper kept the men at a safe distance
with a Winchester rifle; none dared to
rush on what seemed certain death. The
sheriff telegraphed the conditions to the
Governor, and a; 0 d that a cannon with
"solid" shot and supply of long range
rifles be sent to him on a special train.
Gov. Evans replied that no cannon was
available, and ordered Cooper’s capture
dead or alive.
Backed in this, the sheriff got a cannon
in Sumter, but while it was being con
veyed to the seat of war, Cooper was
killed. It seems that under protection of
another house some members of the posse
got within a short distance of where
Cooper was and kept up a hot Are.
He hailed them and offered to talk. One
of the members told film it would be best
to give himself up, but he blasphemed
teribly at the suggestion. He was told
if he came out unarmed with his hands
up he would not be killed. Finally
Cooper did come out. One member of
the posse, keeping him covered, walked
up and took hold of him. The others
then surrounded the negro, who began to
resist. Then he was shot in the head
with a pistol and afterwards with a rifle.
He fell, but regained consciousness and
kept up his cursing. It was suggested
to burn him, but the half dead man was
started to Sumter. On the road the posse,
which had assumed the proportions of
a mob, tied the officers of the law, hauled
Cooper out of the cart in which he was,
and strung him up to a tree, riddling him
with bullets.
A coroner’s inquest held on the spot
resulted in a verdict that the killing had
been done by persons unknown to the
jury.
Cooper’s body was carted through the
streets of Sumter and viewed by a large
crowd, s The negroes seemed Joyous over
the killing of Cooper. The desperado's
last wish was that he might have a
chance to kill the brother who betrayed
him.
List of casualties.
Reported In and Around Pensacola—A
Tragic Death—Fly-Wheel’s Destruc
tive Work.
Pensacola, Fla., Jan. 8.—C.‘ T. Carpen
ter, a highly respected citizen and dry
goods salesman, in this city, was fatally
Injured by falling from a step-ladder
while dressing a show window at F. E.
Brawner’s store this morning. He died
at 12:30 p. m. Mrs. Carpenter Is pros
trated by the shock of her husbaud's
death, and there Is little hope of her
recovery.
J. C. 'Mason, a bridge carpenter for the
Louisville and Nashville road, was
crushed to death while employed on the
railroad wharfs In this city this morning
by a large piling rolling over him. His
remains were taken to his horns In Geor
gians, Ala., where he has a wife and
thirteen children.
News has Just been received in this
city ot the destruction of Higdon’s mill,
near Muscogee, by the bursting of a fly
wheel. An employe named Brewton Is se
riously injured.
The dry goods store of F. E. Brawner
was very badly damaged by Are at 6
o’clock this evening. This Is the store
where C. T. Carpenter met his death by
accident this morning.
A COSTLY OVERCOAT.
Macon, Ga., Jan. 8.—A special to the
Telegraph from Cochran, Ga., says:
Last night three negro tramps entered
the Ingraham hotel and stole an overcoat.
The proprietor discovered the theft as
the negroes were making their exit from
the building, and, with Marshal Rogers,
pursued the thieves. The negroes ran to
a swamp a mile from the city, where they
were overtaken. They stopped and opened
Ape on Ingraham and Rogers, without
effect. The pursuers returned the fire,
killing one negro, mortally wounding
one and the third negro was captured.
SHOT THE NEGRO.
Charlotte, N. C., Jan. 8.—A fatal shoot
ing affray occurred on the outskirts of
this city this after/ioon. J. W. Ramsey,
a furniture dealer, was deputized to ar
rest a negro, Jerry Wllloby, accused of
theft. He went to the negro’s house In
company with the plaintiff against Wlllo
by, and tried to make the aprest. Wlllo
by resisted, whereupon Ramsey shot him
five times, mortally wounding him. Ram
sey says the shooting was In self-defense;
that the negro threatened him with an
ax. When the last shot was fired, Lubln,
the plaintiff against Wllloby, was holding
the negro. Ramsey Is In Jail pending
examination.
ENFORCED IDLENESS
Drove a Negro at Sing Sing to Attempt
Suicide.
Sing Sing, N. Y., Jan. g.-^-As n result
of the new law against contract labor
Frederick Hoffman, a prisoner, attempt
ed to kill himself in prison this morning.
Up to the first of the year Hoffman had
been employed in the printing ofllce In
the prison, but he was compelled to quit
work with the others. Since then he has
been locked In his cell. The only time
he had been out of the cell In the past
week was when he-wau given a 1Ut:t ex
ercise. It was while he was receiving this
this morning that Hoffman tried to end
hfo Hfe.
-There is a gallery all around the prison i
building on the Inside. The keepers did
not pay any particular attention to him
and he fell in line with the other prisoners
in the gang to go down stairs. Just as
the line had started to march HofTman
broke out and jumped over the railing.
It was about seventy-five feet from the
tier where HofTman was locked up to the
stone floor of the prison.
One of his legs was broken and his
head was cut and he was internally in
jured. The physicians say he has no
chance to recover.
The prisoners are begging for some
thing to do. and the warden fears that
other tragedies will result from their en
forced idleness and close confinement.
There are many keepers in Sing Sing
who express the belief that the convicts
will be harder to manage now than here
tofore, owing to the inability to furnish
them with employment.
• KNIVES USED FREELY.
And Seven Men Horribly Carved as a
Result of a Christening.
Scranton, Pa., Jan. 8.—An Hungarian
christening at Mayfield, this county, yes
terday, had the usual bloody ending
which attends these festivals; for, as a
result of a fight with knives, one man
is dead, two are dying and five others
are badly carved. Strong liquor flowed
freely at the christening, and soon many
of the men were mad with drink.
Seven of the participants of the feast
went to the house of Lucetz Krutchas.
Krutchas soon had to resent an insult to
his wife, and then the knives flashed
out. A fearful fight followed in the dark.
The drink-maddened men cut and stab
bed each other and rolled together upon
the floor in a deadly grapple. Finally a
constable and a posse broke into the
house, and when a light was had a
ghastly picture wa,a presented. The fur
niture was battered and broken and blood
was everywhere, and stretched upon the
floor were eight apparently dead and dy
ing men, groaning and cursing. A phy
sician was hastily summoned. Krutchas
was so terribly cut that he died in a
short while. The injuries of the other
men snow tne savage nature of the fight.
Peter Guzey, cut over the heart, left
hand severed at the wrist; will die.
Wazyl Zeubel, stabbed in the back,
lung pierced and chunk of flesh cut from
the shoulder; will probably die.
John Turpakono, ear cut off and numer
ous slashes on shoulder and back.
Paul Pawtak, face and arms cut.
John Nester, face, head and breast bad
ly cut.
Michael Oleaniz, stabbed In the face and
back.
Andrew Telep, stabs and nose broken.
These men are under guard in the hos
pital, and an Investigation of the affair
is being held.
WANT PROTECTION
For Earthenware, Glassware, Marble and
Stone Industries—Present Tariff Works
a Hardship On Labor.
Washington, Jan. 8.—The ways and
means committee today heard represent
atives of the earthenware, glassware,
marble and stone Industries.
F. W. Walker, of Beaver Falls, Penn.,
the first speaker, advocated a change In
the section of the present law relating to
tiles, favoring a new classification, with
sepclflc duties.
R. W. Leslie, of Philadelphia, advocated
the retention of the present duty on ce
ment.
L. Arrington, of Altoona, 111., asked,
on behalf of the glassblowers of Illinois,
the restoration of the 'McKinley rates on
bottles.
E. A. Eagard, of Streator, 111., a glass
blower, said that the American workmen
had been driven to the wall by the pres
ent tariff law. Works had been closed,
wages reduced and the hours of work In
creased. Under the McKinley law the In
dustry had prospered, and at the same
time the cost of bottles was reduced 25 per
cent. Under present conditions It was
becoming more and more difficult for
the American glassblowers to hold their
own against the cheap labor abroad.
The old duty was simply Just and fair
and injured no one. The present duty
had in no way benefited' the consumer
and had almost ruined the workmen. It
was simply taking from those who had
little and giving to those who had much.
W. J. Smith, of Pittsburg, spoke for the
workers In flint and lime glassware, the
[ most Important branch of the glass ln
| dustry, employing the greatest number of
laborers and having the largest capital.
He asked for protection on lime and flint
products in order that the industry might
live and employment be given the idle
workmen. Bohemia, with the cheapest
labor In the world, was the greatest com
petitor. Germany, where the wages were
only about one-third of what they were
here, came next. The Industry needed
stimulation now more than ever before
and In his opinion the duties given should
exceed those in the McKinley law.
W. F. Dorfllnger, of New York, repre
senting the cut glass manufacturers as
sociation, said a high tariff on cut glass
was necessary In order to compete suc
cessfully with the ware produced by
cheap foreign labor.
F. L. Bodlne. of Philadelphia, a man
ufacturer of cylinder window glass and
green and flint bottles, said that the effect
of the present law had been to reduce
wages, close factories and bankrupt most
of the domestic makers. The Importa
tion of foreign glass was unnecessary, as
the mills of this country were able to
supply the home demand and would do so
If the labor alone was given the requis
ite protection. Under these conditions he
thought it reasonable. Just and necessary
to have rates not lower than those fixed
in the McKinley law.
Samuel Burns, representing the window
glass makers of Pittsburg, said that those
he represented requited an additional
tarlfT to compete with foreigners. The ef
fects of the Wilson bill had been disas
trous to the workman and the trade, the
workmen being forced to accept a re
duction' of fromi 22ito 28 per cent.
Representatives of the potters of New
Jersey and Fast Liverpool, O., told prac
tically the same story as the glass blow
ers, and made the same appeal for pro
tection.
A Rutland, Vt„ marble quarryman
asked for a duty on marble.
Mr. D. M. Stewart, of Chattanooga,
Tenn., a manufacturer of lava gas tips,
advocated a specific duty of 50 cents per
gross on Importations of lava tips.
The committee adjourned until tomor
row, when those interested In Iron, steel
and lead ores will be heard.
GOT OFF LIGHT.
Norfolk, Va., Jan. 8.— Samuel Cotton
was today convicted of criminally as
saulting 7-year-old Virgin Porter, of this
.city, and given seven years in the peni
tentiary. Cotton was at one time a mem
bet of the city,council.
WEFKLY TRENO Of THE
One Adva^ge for the New
v^.r’s Business
/e CLEANING UP
■<reat Number of Unsound Concerns
ir
*■' Which Were Detrimental
TO THE COUNTRY'S INTEREST
Comparative Figures as to the Banking and
Commercial Failures—Speculation Mar
ket Dull—Enormous Purchases of Bil
lets—Great Iron Trade Expected.
New York. Jan. 8.—R. G. Dun & Co.
will say tomorrow in their weekly review
of trade: The year 1897 begins with ona
clear advantage; the past year has swept
out of the way a great number of un
sound concerns which In any time of ac
tivity would have been a danger to busi
ness. Of the 15,286 commercial and bank
ing failures in 1896, with liabilities of
$276,815,749, a large share representing
crippling losses In previous years, or the
violence of speculative storms In 1895 or
the first half of 1896, while thousands
more resulted from the fury of the politi
cal tornado last fall. Banking failures
amounting to $50,718,915 during the year
averaged $256,156 each and were 145 per
cent, larger than in 1895.
Commercial failures amounted to $226,
096,834, a little over $1,000,000 having been
added by the last day of the year, but the
average of liabilities, $14,992, was smaller
than in some years of great prosperity.
The failures of brokerage and "other”
commrcial concerns averaged $58,418
each. Increasing 183 per cent, over 1895,
while manufacturing failures averaged
$28,808 each, and increased 34 per cent,,
and trading failures increased 18 per
cent, and averaged only $9,606 each.
While banking failures have not ceased
at the west, apprehension about them has
almost wholly subsided, and no serious
influence upon general trade is now ex
pected. Many sound concerns were
doubtless caught by the epidemic, but
practically all the important failures are
traced to disregard of law and of banking
sense at periods somewhat distant. It is
felt at the west that all business will be
the sounder of Its purging, and the re
turn of money to New York has exceeded
shipments to the Interior by $2,000,000 for
the week. Heavy disbursements by the
treasury and by great corporations make
money abundant, and banks and sav
ings banks are seeking good paper, tak
ing some formerly sold at Chicago. For
eign exchange has risen a triflle, as large
bills are about to mature. Merchandise
exports were 11 per cent, over last year,
while imports were 27 per cent, less than
for the same week.
Speculative markets have been dull.
Cotton started up a< shade, but receipts
from plantations are still too large for low
estimates, and the condition of the cot
ton mills foreshadows curtailment rather
than large consumption. The market for
goods' is extremely low, as many Infer
that the unprecedented stocks of print
cloths indicate a surplus of other goods;
The logic is had, but in many branches
the mills have doubtless manufactured
goods anticipating a demand which has
not come. It is now proposed to relieve
the market by selling quantities of print
cloths abroad, or by locking up 2,000,000
pieces until the market Improves. The
only change in quotations is %c. reduc
tion In some bleached goods.
In woolen goods the only change is a
reduction of 716 cents in clay worsteds
and mixtures, and orders are not more
frequent. Orders for boots and shoes
have almost ceased, except for a few
qualities which have been advanced only
2V6 to 5 cents In price, but jobbers are
buying a little more as stocks run low.
Leather Is stiff and hides ai shade
stronger.
junoromus purcnases oi uniets came
with a rush, most of the large concerns
contracting for all they required for
months and even a year to come, and
some of the largest contracts are said to
have been at $16 or even les3; but there
is as yet no better demand for structur
al work. Bars are weak. Nalls have
declined to $1.40 for wire and $1.30 for
cut, and little is doing in rails, as possi
ble buyers think $26 is too high with bil
lets at $15 per ton. Nevertheless, a
great trade is expected when relative
prices become settled.
BRADSTREET'S REVIEW.
New York, Jan. 8.—Bradstreet’s tomor
row will say: With the exception of re
ports from a dozen South Atlantic coast
and gulf cities, jobbers at nearly all dis
tributing centers say business is dull and
without new features. Demand has im
proved at Chicago and St. Louis for hats,
hardware, shoes and dry goods, but trade
in those lines is fair only. Colder weather
has stimulated purchases of clothing at
some points. Little general recovery
from holiday dullness is reported as yet.
At most centers salesmen are Just start
ing out. Collections are reported un
satisfactory, but in many instances mer
chants express themselves as hopeful of
a good spring business.
The price movement has had little sig
nificance. advances having been shown in
hides which have become relatively scarce,
turpentine, coffee, wool, oats and tin.
Firm and practically unchanged quota
tions have been recorded for wheat, flour,
pork, sugar, cotton, print cloths and pe
troleum, and reactions are reached In
quotations for southern pig iron, lard and
corn.
There Is no change in the wool market,
manufacturers declining to buy until they
receive orders for goods. More strength
has been shown by boots and shoes since
the first of the week. Iron and steel have
been disappointing, as consumers evident
ly anticipated a further reduction in
prices and refuse to place orders. The
week has been marked by exceptionally
heavy orders of southern pig Iron for ex
port. Cotton goods remain as depressed
and the market is as unsatisfactory as
heretofore, with lower prices expected.
The week’s total of business failures
throughout the United States is 488, one
of the largest ever reported. This is
contrasted with 329 in the last week of
1898, with 448 in the first week of 1896 ; 405
In the corresponding week of-1895 and
with 4S4 in the.like portion $f 1894.BIRMINGHAMHERALD.
• * • ]
VOLUME 22. BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, JANUARY 10, 1897.—SIXTEEN PAGES. NUMBER 310
_.. - ...-:--,
A MOST DAMNABLE CONSPIRACY
To Wreck a Passenger Train and
Rob the Dead.
CONFESSIONS MADE IN FULL
By Members of the Gang Captured
by Sheriff Frank P. O’Brien
AND SOME OF HIS ABLE DEPUTIES
Every Minute Detail Given of a Plan Which Ex
ceeds in Deviltry Anything Ever Con
ceived by Mortal Man.
On the morning of Dec. 23 the entire
city and community was shocked by the
announcement through the columns of
the State Herald of the attempt, by In
human monsters to wreck passenger train
No. 37, west bound on the Southern rail
way, at McComb's trestle, between Hen
ryellen and Weems, and about fifteen
miles from Birmingham.
Never, since the memorable Saturday
night of Dec. 8, 1888, when the celebrated
butchery, termed the Hawes riot occurred
which will go down in the history of Jef
ferson county as its darkest deed, was
such a thrill of terror known to shake
this city from center to circumference.
When it became generally known that an
attempt had been made to wreck
A PASSENGER TRAIN
with upward of 200 people on board for
the sole purpose of gaining a few paltry
dollars, Indignation reached a severe ten
sion.
All honor was accorded Brave Jim
Hawes, one of the truest engineers who
ever grasped a throttle or reversed a lev
er, when it was authoritatively an
nounced that but for his eagle eye and
cool brair^the entire train, human freight
and all, would have been plunged into an
abyss, whose bottom was 110 feet dis
tant and which was a mass of jagged
rocks, and all on board either killed out
right or suffered a like fate with those
on board the ill-fated Birmingham min
eral train which
WENT THROUGH CAHABA BRIDGE
4>ut a few days thereafter, leaving many
homes desolate, adding new graves to
■those already dug on many hill sides,
tmaldng widows and orphans all in al
most a single instant of time.
That the removal of a rail, so timely
discovered by Engineer Jim Hawes, was
the work of criminals whose souls were
blacker than the hinges of hell, there was
no room for doubting. Every instance
and surrounding tended to prove the fact.
Who they were, was a riddle which
seemed destined to become as dark as the
sphynx in the desert of Sahara.
Justice demanded that, if in the power
of man. the scoundrels, who dared to
doubly violate the commands of the Al
mighty by taking life and robbing the
dead, be brought before the tribunals
and a punishment commeasurate with
tfielr guilt be meted out to them.
Sheriff Frank P. O’Brien was sum
moned in the dead hour of night, to awak
en, as crime, dark and bloody, was
stalking red-handed through the lantl,
and he having pledged himself, In the
sight of God and man, to keep down
crime, responded to the call. Hastily
summoning together such of his trusted
aids as Chief Deputy Warnock and Depu
ties Ball and Waldrop, securing horses
and arms and with a pack of dogs whose
scent were as keen as the livid lightning,
they went as fast as man e’er dares to
go to the scene of the attempted crime.
The dogs were loosed and soon struck
a trail. Closely followed by the stern
minions of the law they plunged through
the darkness. On and on they went, but
to no avail. The scoundrels were too
cool-headed, and for the time being jus
tice was thwarted.
The law must be satisfied, said Sheriff
O’Brien, and never having failed to do
his duty, the law was satisfied, Insofar as
his duty demanded, as will be seen furth
er on.
After riding from midnight until 8:30
a. m.. Sheriff O’Brien and his aides re
turned to the city. As soon as possible
after his arrival Sheriff O’Brien called
upom Mr. J. Barber Thompson, assistant
general superintendent of the Southern
Railway. He Informed Mr. Thompson
of what had been done, his opinions as
compiled from what he gathered at the
scene of the attempted wreck, and then
asked for instructions.
Mr. Thompson promptly informed
Sheriff O'Brien that he would place the
matter
ENTIRELY IN HIS HANDS
and to spare no expense In ferritlng out
and bringing to justice the scoundrels
who attempted the most diabolical crime
In the history of the south. Sheriff
O’Brien’s first step was to secure the
services of John H. Sullivan, a man noted
for coolness, bravery and skill in: ferrit
lng out criminals. Mr. Sullivan, armed
with full and explicit instructions, re
paired to the scene of the attempted
wreck and went Immediately to work.
This movement on the part of the sheriff,
as afterward turned out, proved a happy
one. It was the beglnnJg of a most suc
cessful ejid.
Quietly and without the knowledge -of
any save those directly in the confidence
of the sheriff, the plans were mapped
out and successfully carried through.
One by one the men implicated in the
plot, which, for helllshness exceeded any
thing ever conceived by mortal man,
were capturned and landed in the county
Jail.
The first arrest was made on Decemter
30, two at Sheriff O’Brien’s deputies suc
ceeding in landing Tom Ingram. His In
ductlon Into the county jail was kept a
secret until the next day, when the leader
of the party and the man in whose hell
ish brain was hatched the plot to obtain
money at the cost of hundreds of lives,
was captured.
Tom’s incarceration, as stated, was fol
lowed by that of Andrew Fagin.
Emanuel Billings and Roan Scales were
captured on New Year’s day. On the
2d, Lucy Fagin, the wife of the leader,
was captured.
Tom Parker, by far the most important
of the gang, was captured on the 3d, and
he it was who first told of the plot de
vised by Fagin.
Nat Trainnam’s arrest followed on the
4th, he being the last, it is thought, o£
the badly wanted men.
CONFESSIONS.
The following are the confessions of
the villains, as obtained by Sheriff
O’Brien, and are verbatim, and will be
used against them at the time of their
trials.
The details were given in answer to
interrogatories propounded by Sheriff
O’Brien, and were carefully taken down
by a stenographer.
TOM PARKER.
Tom, where were you Saturday night,
the 19th of December?
I was In Henryellen.
Where were you on the 22d?
I was in Coal City.
When did you leave Henryellen?
On Sunday. •
What time?
I reckon it was about 12 or 1 o'clock.
Going where?
To Coal City.
Where did you stay Sunday night?
I didn't stay in any house at all. I
stayed around the depot there until about
8 or 9 o’clock. Then I went upon the
grade just above the depot, where the
freights slow up, and caught a train.
Monday night where were you?
Monday I stayed in a big brick building
at Pell City. They had a dance in there
or supper.
Did you talk with anybo’dy there, Tom?
No more than the people there; lots of
people there.
Who is it that knows you there?
This fellow Collins.
What is his other name?
Green Collins. That was Green Collins'
wife’s daughter-in-law that I stayed with
in Pell City.
•Was there anybody at the dance that
you knew?
No, sir; no person but Bob Perry.
Where does he live?
Lives at Pell City. I stayed with him
and slept with him all the time.
Who did you leave Henryellen with?
Bob perry.
This same man that you staid with to
Pell City?
Yes, sir; he stopped off there Saturday
night and we caught a train together.
Stopped at Pell City?
Yes, Sir; got off at Pell City.
When did Bob come to Henryellen?
He came there Saturday evening.
What did he come there for?
He Just stopped off there to see a fellow
named Ragland—Aaron Ragland.
Had he been living at Henryellen be
fore?
Who?
Perry.
No.
What did you go up to Coal City for?
I went up there to work.
What time and where did you draw
your money? At Coal City?
No; at Henryellen. I never made no
payment at Henryellen. Only worked
three shifts and made $4.50.
When did you draw that money?
I drew it on Thursday; $2 of it on
Thursday, and $1 of it on Friday.
When did you pawn your overcoat?
I pawned it to Mr. Pugh in the commis
sary.
What day did you pawn your over
coat?
I pawned my overcoat on Friday—no,
I pawned my overcoat on Thursday.
Thursday—what date? Let's fix that
date. Was it Thursday before you left?
Thursday in the first week I got there.
You say you pawned your overcoat on
the 10th?
Yes, sir; on Thursday. I know it was
Thursday; I didn't kuuw wtxat date. X
pawned it and got a pit cap and a lamp
and a suit of underwear.
When djd you redeem that overcoat?
I redeemed it on Thursday.
The Thursday before you left Henry
ellen?
Yes, sir.
Payvned it on the 10th and redeemed
it on the 17th?
Yes, sir. .
What were you doing" with Emanuel
Billings on Sunday night after you left
Henryellen?
I never saw Emanuel until Emanuel
was here tn town, and I think I never saw
Feaglns. Either I left after Feagins left
and Nat Tranam.
,Jou were altogether Sunday night?
No, sir; I never saw them Sunday at
nil. .
When did you see them?
I saw them Friday in the night. Nat
got his time cashed on Friday.
Nat who?
Nat Tranam and Emanuel came into
Birmingham together on a Friday.
How long did Nat Tranam, Billings and
Andrew Feagin leave Henryellen before
you left—how many hours, how many
days?
They left—Nat Tranam left together on
the 11 o’clock train in the day.
Now, how many days was that before
you left?
That was on a Friday, and I left Sun
day.
You left, then, two days after they did?
Yes, sir.
When did Feagin leave there?
Feagin left there Friday night.
You left on the following Sunday?
Yes, sir.
In other words, he had been gone from
Henryellen two days before you left—Is
that it?
Who?
Feagin.
He left Friday night and I left Sunday
night. Emanuel and Tranam left togeth
er in the day on the 11 o’clock train.
Was that the Friday before Christmas
that they left or the Friday after Christ
mas?
The Friday before Christmas.
Just a week before Christmas?
Yes, sir.
Did they come back at any time after
that?
wasn’t anything doing there Thursday
at all. Never worked again until Mon
day after Christmas.
Then Friday night, Christmas night,
where were you?
I went to Pell’s to the dance Friday.
You have not been back to Henry El
len since Sunday night before Christ
mas?
No sir: not before yesterday.
And these other men left on Friday,
just two days ahead?
Emanuel and Nat left on the 11 o’clock
train and came to town. Manuel went
to the commissary and bought him a pair
of pants upon the day I got my coat from
Mr. Pugh.
The same time you redeemed your coat?
Yes, sir.
Was that the day he got his time whert
ne came to town?
Manuel? He never drawed his time.
Didn’t he get some checks?
Yes, sir; he got a - check and
bought him a pair of jeans pants.
Didn’t he get an order for his time at
the same time?
1 don’t know, sir; I never went to the
office. * * *
,Do you know Jim Jones?
No, sir; I don’t.
You didn’t see Feagin, Billings and
Scales near the tool house on Saturday
night?
No, sir; I didn’t. I saw Scales last since
I saw any of them. ,
When was that?
{He was down at the tool house when I
wv
Andrew Fagan.
l aon t know, sir.
Now, when you and Bob Perry left
Henryellen where did you go to that
night?
We went toward? Leeds on that grade
and caught the freight.
Where did you go then?
Went to Pell.
Where did you go then?
Went to that brick and stayed there.
There was a big crowd there.
Where did you go when you got to
Pell City?
We didn’t go nowhere; just stayed
around the depot.
Then you didn’t go to sleep in that
brick building Sunday night?
I said I didn’t sleep nowhere Sunday
night, because it was after 12 o’clock
when I left Henryellen.
You told me yesterday that you and this
Bob Perry went into the old brick build
ing and slept.
I said we staid In the brick Monday
night, where they were having a dance.
There was a big crowd there, white and
black, and one white man that I per
sonally knew. He had a talk with me.
He was up there at work.
When you got there Sunday night then,
you didn’t go to that brick?
We never slept nowhere Sunday night.
You were mistaken in your statement
to me?
I don’t remember making the state
ment. I never Slept nowhere Sunday
night.
When was it that you slept in the old
brick?
Monday.
Then you had a dance Monday night?
We did. There was a big crowd there.
I reckon thirty or forty people there,
up stairs and down. They had a dance
there all the week.
Where was you Tuesday.
In Pell.
In Pell’s Tuesday night again?
In Coal City.
In whose house?
Bob’s house ,
Did you sleep at Bob’s house Chat
night?
Slept with Bob.
That is Tuesday night, the 22d of De
cember?
I don't know what date. It was on
Tuesday night me and him come back
down to Pell. —
What day did you first work at that
place, and what day was that at Coal
City?
The first day’s work I worked there on
a night. It was on ^Thursday night—
on a Wednesday night before Christmas
• •••••••*•
Who for?
I worked with Bob, putting joints (?)
in his place..
Who turned in your time?
He turned it in.
Turned it In" to where?
Turned it in tp Mr. Allison.
Mr. Who?
Allison. "
What did you do the next day, Thurs
day? ,rrr • -•
... I didn’t do anything.
CTou worked Wednesday; the 23d?
Worked Wednesday night. There
saw him.
On what dayT
Saturday.
You all slept together?
Yes, sir.
Who else?
Well, before Nat and Manuel left all of
a house over there together,
and Thursday night Andy and his wife
had a falling out. and he told her If she
would be there after he come out it would
not be good for her, and she left
sleep ?rS d'd y°U and Nat and Scales
We carried the things from the house
where she was and put them on the bed.
Feagin’s bed?
Yes, sir.
' Thea you and Feagln and Scales slept
together?
Yes, sir; we all slept togther the night
after she left.
Where did you sleep the next night?
We slept there at the house.
You and Feagin and Scales?
Nobody but me and Scales and'
That • was the Friday night before
Christmas?
Yes, sir.
When was It that Tom Ingram was
with you?
r didn’t know any Tom Ingram at all.
You remember the Saturday night be
fore Christmas you and Andrew and
the rest of you had that talk. You re
member the night that you and Tom Par
ker ajid Andrew Feagin and Billings—
there were about seven of you In the
house, and Andrew put the question to
you, "All who want to make some money
now, hold up your hands?” Who was in
that crowd?
Tb«re was three men in that crowd I
didn't know.
Ytiu were there?
Yes, sir; I was.
Who else?
Nat Tranum was one, Emanuel Bil
lings and Scales.
'Rome Scales?
Yes, sir.
Whp else?
There were three more fellows there; I
don’t know the names, but I know the
Iasi* of one of these names. It was
Owens.
Another prisoner, interrupting—His
name was Bose Owens.
\Vhere does he work now?
He had just come. Three of them come
together. The other one was named Joe,
but the other part of the name I don’t
know. Feagin and Nat both was ac
quainted with him and they fixed him
something to eat. Nat had worked with
Joe at Newcastle.
Tell what Feagin said when he came
there.
Feagin came there and walked across
the floor. He had on one of those white
checks with red streaks, and he came In
and says, "All of you fellows that want
money^ now, hold up your hands,” and
he talked on to the crowd and I made
some remarks.
What was the talk?
They was telling how they would get
money. We’ll go down and hold up a
train and get money. He made a remark
m
fs
when he said that.
What was said about guns? < ?l
I was the first man spoke anything
about a gun. I was the first man that
spoke when he was talking.
What was the remark that he made?
He didn't make any remark about the
gun. I made the remark about the gun.
He said: "We will hold up a train." I
said: “We will play h—1 holding up a
train and getting money." He says to
me: "It looks like that you have but d—n
little to say.” I said, "You will play
h—1 holding up a train with your hands."
He said: "I have tools sufficient to get
the money.”
Who said that?
Feagin.
Andrew Feagin?
res, sir.
•You said that you needed guns?
I told him he would play h—1 holding
up a train with his hands.
Didn't he say when he wrecked the
train he would get guns?
He said: "What I will do to that train
would be a God’s plenty." He didn't say
anything about getting guns. * « •
On Saturday night after you had that
talk didn't you go down about the section
house with Emanuel Billings and you
stopped in front of Mr. Adams' house
when young Mr. Adams was looking at
you and Feagin went around and broke
in the tool box—didn’t Feagin go around
then while you boys were there and go to
monkeying with the tool box and let the
bar drop and make a noise and you fel
lows ran?
When Feagin was making this talk he
told me he had those things. He sajd he
had such tools as he wanted.
He found out that he needed a claw
bar for one?
No, sir; it Was Saturday night. I got
there on a Thursday and it was Saturday
night Andy had this talk—the first Satur
day in the week 1 got to Henryellen.
Look at that picture and see if that
■was not one of the men whose name you
didn’t know'.
No, sir; 1 don’t think this is one of the
men I didn't know. The man I don’t
know is a very black man, and he is a tall
fellow.
You said he was Just about your size.
I said Joe, the one that stayed in town
is about my size, and a bright man. I
heard him tell that he has a wife in town.
Is not that one of the men that you
don’t know? (Showing photograph.)
1 know the other two.
Is that one of them?
Yes, sir; I know this man; this is Fea
gin. The only man that I don’t know is
this tall, black one.
Did he wear a big slouch hat?
I think he had a kind of small crowned
Stetson hat, and this other boy he had
on a cap and wore his cap back on his
head.
What did they say to you then after
you told them they would play h—1 in
holding up a train?
They said that the man that was in this
thing and didn’t go wherever they went
would be killed.
Do you mean to say that they would
kill the men in the train that were not
already dead?
No. sir; the men that was in the house.
I went over to the house they were stay
ing at and got a stick of wood and lighted
the e.nd of it in the fire and sot down. *
* * I heard Scales and Andy tell the
rest of them. He says, “Andy, you are
always too fast. I have some niggers
Just come here from town. That’s Tom
Parker. He lias always boarded with
white folks. He won’t do to trust. When
I was arrested in Brookside I knowed
Tom Parker. When they arrested me
there Tom helped to catch some parties
in the woods. Feagin said, "If I can
Just get him with us what we will do
to him would be a God's plenty.”
What they would do to the train?
No; what they would do to me. I was
listening.
When you broke open that tool house
that night and the crowd started down
the road, Scales was the first man backed
out?
I don’t know; I was not with them when
they broke open the tool house.
When you got on around the curve
there, Billings backed out?
No, sir; I was not with them.
That left two of you?
I was not with them.
Billings helped this man Feagin to
hide the bar?
I was not with them at all. I never
asked any questions about the bar.
The night-that the rail was displaced
from the trestle, is It not a fact that you
and this negro, after drawing the spikes
out of the rail, went down and sat by
the fire?
No, sir; I was not with them at all.
Then you got scared and left and heard
the hounds, and when up there between
Henryellen and the trestle tried to catch
a mule to lose the track?
Who? Me? I never tried to catch a
mule in my life.
You threw a rock on top of a house to
wake up a negro?
No, sir.
Didn’t he tell you that he would do you
like the mule would do?
No, sir; he didn’t tell me that.
After you got In that house didn’t you
make the remark, "That Is what the
mule told us—that he would not let us
ride.” And Scales asked what was that,
and you said he kicked up his leg?
No, sir; I never h£(d such a talk in my
life.
Didn’t you and Scales and Feagin lay
down and sleep until morning?
I never slept with Feagin but one night.
■What night was it that you slept with
Feagin ?
The first night that his wife left I slept
In his bed that night?
What night? Before Christmas, was
that?
I think It was about Thursday night
In the week before Christmas.
You said yesterday to Mr. Tom Jones
that you wanted to tell the truth. Now,
out with the truth If you propose to tell
It; go on and tell it. If you don't we will
bring the other parties over.
I am willing to face them.
Prisoners brought in.
EMANUEL BILLINGS
put in the chair.
Who is that Emanuel?
That’s Tom.
Emanuel, go back to the Saturday
night before the wreck, or, first, go back
a few days before that, when Andy first
talked to you about this train business,
and make the statement that you made
about it—what was in it and what trans
pired. Go through the whole story.
I forget how many days it was before
Saturday night he spoke to me.
Tell who were present and what Andy
said.
He told me, he said: "Emanue;.” I said
‘‘TThu!’’ "Would you like to have some
money for Christmas?” I said, "Yes, I
would like to have some money.” He
said, "I am going to have some good
money on me Christmas. Would you like
to be Ihto It.” I said, “I don’t know; my
mind ain’t composed for nothing like that
now; my mind ain’t on It; my mind ain’t
on nothing but work.” 1 was working
every day. He said, "Emanuel,! how
would you do if you was going into a
train to get some money? What would
you'-say?" ,'t said: «r- ftdn't know: T
would have’ to get my mind on Buch as
that before I would do ‘that.” X never
■; .
I
! said anything more to him until that Sat
urday evening that he came out of the
mines. I never worked that Saturday at
all.
The Saturday before Christmas?
The same Saturday the bar was got. I
went to the commissary and
came on back down home. I sot down
there a long time and he came back down
there. It was dark then. Then he said:
"Emanuel, come and go with me.” I
said, “Tell me where you are going?"
He said: "Follow me.” I followed him
to the commissary and stayed around
there about a half an hour, I reckon.
Then I went back down home. Then he
came back down there and grabbed me
and wanted me to go back with him.
We went up there and stayed around
the commissary. He went through the
woods and me and Tom came on to the
house. Directly he said: "Come on; let’s
go down here. 1 know where we can
get a bar.” He went on down there.
Me and Tom was in front. I was be
hind Tom. We went on down the Cen
tral track In front of Andy, and Andy
stopped Just at the tool house.
Tom said: "You stay back,” and I kept
walking back until I got nearly back to
the Central depot, and Tom went on down
the Central track. Then he went down
the Georgia Pacific road. In front of Mr.
Adams'. It was there he stayed. Andy
he got something; I don't know what iti
was. I don’t know whether he broke the
lock. He went in there and got the bar.
In taking up the bar It made a noise, a
pretty loud fuss. Anybody could have
heard It who had been listening. When
he heard this fuss he grabbed the bar
and come running out and shut the door
behind him, running by me. and I turned/
right on behind him, running, too. He
throwed the bar down In a gulley. Tom
then come up where me and Andy was.
Andy went back and got the bar. Andy
sot the bar by a pine tree and left Tom
there. Andy tried to get me to go to the
house with two more boys. I don’t know
wnat tneir names were.
Wasn’t one of them Tom Ingram?
No, sir. Well, anyhow,Andy knowect
them; me and Tom didn’t. He went on.
I was cold. He said. "Come, let’s go." I
said, “Oh. the devil; I ain’t warm yet.”
Ha said, "Ain’t yo gwine?" I said, "I ant
gwine when I get warm.” He stayed a
little while and got one of the fellows to
go. They got down there opposite to
Mr. Adams' house and stopped. This fel
low he got to go he stopped and com
menced talking. He talked all right. I
never let on to Andy that I waS paying
any attention to him at all. And Tom he
then was gone on the railroad by the
commissary.
Which Tom?
Tom Parker. And me and Andy got to
the railroad, Tom in front of us. I don’t
know exactly how far it was. I was
in front, and I whistled and called and
told him (Andy) I was going no further
than right there.
Was Tom there then?
No, sir; Tom hadn’t got to us then. I
said, “Andy, I ain’t gwine any further,”
and he said, “Wait here for Tom.” When
he got there Andy said, "What about it?”
Tom said, "I want us to go tonight.”
Andy asked me, but I said I didn’t want
to go tonight; "I ain’t going." At that
time Andy sot down on the railroad. I
never did sit. Both of them when they
saw I wasn’t going, decided to go back,
too. Andy says, “Emanuel, will you hide
the bar?" I says "Yes." and hid the bar
under two logs and went on back to the
house and went to sleep. Sunday morn
ing when I woke, I went to my sister’s
house and stayed until nearly night, and
Monday I left.
What time dbl you leave Monday?
On the 11 o’clock train.
Where did you see Tom Monday?
I left Tom standing at the end of the
porch on the ground in his shirt sleeves.
Him and Andy both was standing there.
That was Monday before Christmas?
Monday before Christmas. I didn’t see
Tom any more until yesterday.
You came on to town. Tell what hap
pened.
Me and Nat—
What Nat?
Just named Nat. He says. “Are you
going to town?” I says, "Yes, if any
train was going and I could get my check
cashed.” He said. "Come on to the com
missary." I went and left Tom and An
dy standing there by the porch. I went
on to the commissary. Nat he took up
all the time he had there—$6. I Just took
up $2.
What did you get for the $2?
I got $1.50.
Didn't you buy some shoes or some
thing of that kind?
No, sir; I got $1.50 for the checks. I
didn’t buy any shoes at that time. The
same day I stopped work I bought these
pants—the Saturday before Christmas. I
had on a thin pair of pants, torn in the
seat.
You remember the overcoat that Tom
nauY
Yes, sir.
Did he redeem It the day that you
bought the pants?
He had the overcoat on. I don’t know
when he got It out.
Who cashed the checks?
I saw 'Mr. Percy and asked him if he
would cash the checks for me. He said
he had about $25 or $50 In checks already,
but he said he would cash them to oblige
me, because anything he had always
asked me to do I did It. He gave me a
$6 bill and a $1 bill. I put the $1 In my
pocket and gave Nat the $5. and that
left Nat owing me $6. * * *
Where did Nat go when you got to
town?
I put my valise on the train and kept
It with me until I got to town. We came
out through the shed antd went to Wise’B.
When was that?
Monday before Christmas. Nat took me
on to Wise’s saloon and treated me to a
glass of whisky. Then me and Nat
walked around a long time. Came on
down as far as First avenue. I said: ‘‘I
am going out home; do you want to go
out there?" He said no.
Where did you go then?
I went to my mother’s.
Where ts that?
On Sixth alley, between Fifteenth and
Sixteenth.
When did you first hear of the wreck?
I think it was Wednesday. Bob Burks
he works at the Florence hotel. I was
sitting down there on a trunk and Bob
come and set down In the corner. He
said, “There was a wreck. The Georgia
Pacific train ran off the trestle last night.
Somebody said, “Oh. shucks, he’s Just
Joking.” I said, “Sure enough?”
Did you ask him where It was?
Yes; he said that three-bench trestle.
I laughed. I didn’t let on to him that I
knew apything about It.
When you headr of the wreck out there
did you undertsand it?
I laughed.
What was It you said to yourself?
I said, “Oh, h—1, I'm glad I wasn’t
there.”
When they proposed to wreck that train
what was It that you asked?
They said they were going to wreck
the train to get Christmas money.
What was It they said about how thejn
would get the money?
Andy said when they threw the train
off the trestle that all of them not killed
would be wounded and wsswOuld go 4a
and get the money or anything else w»
wanted and g# out.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD._
VOLUME 22. BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 189 7. NUMBER 361
%
MILLS GROWS ELOQUENT
In Advocating Liberty for the
Struggling Cubans,
DEFIES THE CONTINENT
And Scoffs the Idea of Interference of Titled
Heads in American Affairs.
RESOLUTION NOT YET ACTED UPON
The Pacific Railway Funding Bill Hangs
High and Dry on the Bhelf—Presi
dent’s Message Accompanying
General Arbitrat o i Treaty.
■Washington, Jan. XI.—Senator Allison
(rep. Col.), appeared In the chamber to
day for the first time this session, taking
his seat just as Senator Mills (dem. Tex.),
was complimenting him on his eminent
qualifications for the office of secretary
of state in Mr. McKinley’s cabinet. Mr.
Allison smiled benignantly at the sugges
tion, but gave no further sign as to how
far It coincided with his own views.
A resolution on the subject of a viola
tion of the eight hour law on the part of
contractors with the navy department on
work in Brooklyn, N. Y., was the subject
of a resolution offered by Mr. Allen (pop.
Neb.). He was Informed by Mr. Chand
ler (rep. N. H.), a former secretary of the
navy, that the law only applied to work
done directly for the government, and
not to work done under contract. The
resolution went over until tomorrow.
The house bankruptcy bill was made a
special order in the senate for Monday,
Jan. 25.
A senate Joint resolution authorizing
the secretary of the treasury to solicit
proposals and to contract for the erection
of a government building at the Tennes
see Centennial exposition, without pub
lic advertisement, was introduced by Mr.
Bate (dem. Tenn.), and passed.
An argument was made by Mr. Proctor
(rep. Vt.), in favor of a proposed consti
tutional amendment, making the presi
dential term six years and making the
President Ineligible for re-election; also
making the term of representatives in
the lower house of congress three years.
Then the great feature of the day’s ses
sion was begun with a speech by Mr.
Mills (dem. Tex.), in support of his joint
resolution introduced last Thursday de
claring that the expediency of recogniz
ing the Independence of a new govern
ment belongs to congress; recognizing the
independence of the republic of Cuba, and
appropriating $10,000 for the salary of a
minister to the new republic.
Much of his speech was argumentative
and was supported by precedents in the
cases of the Spanish-Ameriean republics
and of the republic of Texas; but the
principal part of it, and that which at
tracted the greatest attention, was in
severe criticism of the President and sec
retary of state and in angry denuncia
tion of the Italian and Spanish states
men who had ventured to suggest an in
terference by European powers with the
government of the United States, in case
of the recognition of Cuba. In the course
of his invective he derided Italy as a
power whose symbal of greatness was a
monkey and an organ grinder.
Several other senators took part in the
discussion, but only on the question of
the exclusive power of the President to
recognize foreign powers.
The resolution went over without ac
tion, Mr. Bacon, of Georgia, giving notice
that he would speak upon it on Wednes
day.
Mr. Mills began his speech on the Cuban
matter at 1:30 p. m., with thirteen dem
ocratic senators and six republicans in
their seats. He spoke without notes, in
the high-keyed voice natural to him, and
which it is so difficult to maintain in a
long-continued address. The public gal
leries were about half filled.
At the outset Mr. Mills assailed the po
sition assumed by President Cleveland
in his annual message on the Cuban ques
tion, and when Interrupted by Mr. Gray
(dem. Del.), who asked whence the sen
ator derived one particularly pungent ex
tract he was reading, Mr. Mills answered
that he was reading from the message of
President Monroe.
Mr. Mills had numerous books spread
out on the two desks he occupied for the.
time being.
Mr. Mills drew into the controversy
Henry Clay, Andrew Jackson, and made
a point on the recognition of the inde
pendence of Texas, “whose representative
I am,” he said, but immediately corrected
himself by adding, “one of whose repre
sentatives I have the honor to be.”
He asserted with much emphasis, after
reading an extract from President Jack
son’s message on the Texas question, that
ithe power to recognize foreign govern
ments was in the province of congress
and did not rest with the executive.
To this Mr. Gray retorted by reading
the concluding sentence of Andrew Jack
son’s message, which said that while he
thought expediency might vest this mat
ter in congress he did not express any
opinion on the subject.
Mr. Hale (rep. Me.) then came into the
discussion with a number of questions
interjected into Mr. Mills’ speech, to
which he submitted with good grace for
a time, but finally asked Mr. Hale to
wait “an hour or so,” till he got to the end
of his speech, and then to answer him In
IUIO.
Mr. Hale promised not to Interrupt fur
ther, but within five minutes propounded
from his seat three or four more ques
tions. which went far to break up the
continuity of Mr. Mills' argument.
Mr. Mills quoted the action of congress
in 1864 in regard to the French Interven
tion In Mexico when congress by a vote
of 126 to 8 practically administered a
reproof to those great statesmen so dear
to the republican heart—Abraham Lin
coln and William H, Seward-*-and as
serted that congress had the constitu
tional right of recognizing foreign gov
ernments, but that the time and method
of so doing belonged to the executive de
partment. He raised a laugh on the floor
among democrats and republicans alike
by saying that among those who voted
for this resolution were Mr. Morrill, of
Vermont, the master of the senate, and
Mr. Allison, of Iowa, who according to
newspaper report, was to be the next
secretary of state, and no more capable
man could be found on the republican
side.
Warming up as he approached the end
of his remarks Mr. Mills said with much
bitterness of tone he did not envy Mr.
Cleveland the compliments he was re
ceiving from Castelar and Weyler at the
name time that these officials were de
nouncing the senate and house of repre
sentatives of the United States.
Mr. Mills repudiated with horror the in
dignation the statement of -the Presi
dent that the people of the United States
f tobked with admiration upon'the efforts
made by Spain to suppress the Cuban In
Burgents and said that if he had the
power he would send the armed fleets of
the United States to prevent the butch
ery of American newspaper correspond
ents and American citizens. If It were
not for t'he gamblers of the stock ex
change it might be possible for the gov
ernment of the United States to show
some virility. God grant, he Bald pas
sionately, that the day may come some
time when the people of the United States
will be relieved from the shackles of the
mercantile spirit and will compel all the
people of this earth to respect the rights
of its citizens.
Mr. Hale (rep., Me.) closed the dis
cussion by saying that the whole ques
tion, so grave and critical, would come
before the senate some day soon or late,
when the resolution of Senator Cameron,
reported from the foreign relations com
mittee, came up for action. Until that
time he declined to answer the senator
from Texas (Mr. Mills).
Mr. Mills’ resolution went over with
out action. Mr. Bacon (dem., Ga.) giving
notice that he would address the senate
upon It next Wednesday.
The senate then "proceeded to executive
business and at 5:30 o'clock adjourned un
til tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Fate overtook the Pacific railroad fund
ing bill In the house today. It was de
feated by a majority of sixty-six votes
and its supporters were even prevented
from sending it back to the committee
for reconsideration.
The motion on which the decisive blow
was dealt called for the engrossment and
third reading of the bill. When the roll
had been called and the result was an
nounced. the opponents of the measure
Indulged in some hartdclapplng, but made
no attempt at a more noisy demonstra
tion. The final vote was 168 noes, 102
ayes.
A full attendance of members was an
evidence of the interest taken in the
funding bill, which came up under a
special order immediately after the read
ing of the journal.
The speaker stated the first question
to be upon the amendments adopted In
committee of the whole, and they were
agreed to without division.
The next vote was taken on the substi
tute offered by Mr. Bell (dem., Tex.) fix
ing the rate of Interest on the bonds to
be issued at 3 per cent, instead of 2, as
provided in the bill.
The substitute was defeated, ayes 110,
nays 156.
The question then reverted to the sub
stitute offered by Mr. Harrison (dem.,
Ala.) constituting the secretary of the
treasury, the secretary of the interior
and the attorney general a commission
with full power to settle the debts of
the bond-aided Pacific directors, upon
such terms, and In such manner as may
be agreed upon, the approval of the Pres
ident being necessary. If unable to
reach an agreement with the owners of
the roads, the commission to recommend
to congress what legislation they deem
necessary to protect the interests of the
government and to enforce the prompt
collection of the debt.
This substitute was also defeated, ayes
65 to 214 noes and the ayes and nays were
ordered on the engrossment and third
reading of the bill. The vote resulted:
Yeas 102 and nays 168 and the bill was
defeated.
Immediately upon the announcement
of the vote by Speaker Reed there was
some applause from opponents of the bill.
The speaker pronounced the perfunctory
sentence required that the house declined
to order the engrossment and third read
ing of the measure, and considerable con
fusion followed, caused by the exchange
of congratulations among members. Then
several members attempted to make
themselves heard, but Mr. Babcock (rep.
Wis.) managed to get the floor to request
that District of Columbia day be post
poned until next Monday.
Mr. Powers (rep, Vt.) wanted the bill
recommitted to the committee on Pacific
raJlroads. He said that every member
wanted something done about the mat
ter.
A bill providing for officers who served
in the regular army during the war of
the rebellion be permitted to wear the
uniform of their higest rank was passed.
The house devoted the remainder of
the day to the military academy appropri
ation bill and to measures brought for
ward under a call of committees. The
academy bill was passed in short order
without amendment. Among the other
bills passed was one fixing the minimum
limit of capital for national banks in
cities and towns between 60,000 and 3,000
inhabitants, and another extending until
January 1, 1902, the time for the comple
tion of the Blackwell's Island bridge over
the East river.
The house adjourned at 4:12 p. m.
PRESIDENT’S LETTER
To the Senate Accompanying the Anglo
American General Arbitration Treaty.
Washington, Jan. 11.—The President
sent the following message to the senate
this afternoon, transmitting the Anglo
American general arbitration treaty:
To the Senate:
I transmit herewith a treaty for the
arbitration of all matters in difference
between the United States and Great
Britain.
.ine pniv/smuo VJA me IIVOIJ a ic *X.
suit of long and patient deliberation and
represent concessions made by each party
for the sake of agreement upon the gen
eral scheme.
Though the result reached may not
meet the views of the advocates of im
mediate, unlimited and irrevocable arbi
tration of all international controversies,
it is nevertheless confidently believed
that the treaty cannot fail to be every
where recognized as making a long step
in the right direction and as embodying a
practical working plan by which dis
putes between the two countries will
reach a peaceful adjustment as a matter
of course and in ordinary routine.
In the initiation of such an important
movement it must be expected that some
of its features will assume a tentative
character looking to a further advance;
and yet it is apparent that the treaty,
which has been formulated, not only
makes war between the parties to it a re
mote possibility, but precludes those
fears and rumors of war which of them
selves too after assume the proportions
of a national disaster.
It is eminently fitting as well as for
tunate that an attempt to accomplish
results so beneficial should be initiated
by kindred peoples, speaking the same
tongue and joined together by all the
ties of common traditions, common in
stitutions and common aspirations. The
experiment of substituting civilized meth
ods for force as the means of settling in
ternational questions of right will thus
be tried under the happiest auspices.
Its success ought not to be doubted, and
the fact that its ultimate ensuing benefits
are not likely to be limited to the two
countries immediately concerned should
cause it to be promoted all the more
eagerly. The example set and the les
son furnished by the successful opera
tion of this treaty are sure to be felt, and
taken to heart sooner or later by other
nations and will thus mark the beginning
of a new epoch In civilization.
Profoundly Impressed as I am, there
fore. by the promise of transcendent good
which this treaty affords, I do not hesi
tate to accompany Its transmission with
an expression of my earnest hope that It
may commend itself to the favorable con
sideration of the senate.
(Signed.) .©ROVER CLEVELAND.
Executive Mansion, Jan, 11, 1897.
CITY FATHEOSJN SESSION
Large Attendance of Interested
Spectators Noted,
FAVOR THE REFORMATORY
Sewer Bonds May Be Paid Ad Libiturrvby Inte
rested Parties.
THE FLORISTS’ PROPOSITION DECLINED
Important Changes in license Schedule
Reported in Executive Session—Petit
ions Reported and Acted Upon.
Park Fences to bo Fixed,
Quite a large number of spectators were
present at the meeting of the board of
mayor and aldermen last night and there
was the usual number of ,persons present
with petitions.
Mayor Evans called the board to order
promptly at 7:30 o’clock and the follow
ing gentlemen responded to their names:
Messrs. Wheeler, Rambow, Kerr, Dren
nen, Williams, Altman, Graham, Hamil
ton, Pearce, . McCartln, Harrington,
Hentschel, Ward, Melghan, Moore, and
McKnight.
At the conclusion of the roll call the
mayor stated that this was an adjourned!
meeting held over from the last regular
meeting; that the license schedule was
under consideration and the miscellane
ous committee would be heard from if
ready to report.
Alderman Moore moved that gentlemen
present with petitions, etc., be heard
first. Motion carried.
Attorney Weatherly addressed the
board in reference to the Car Service as
sociation. license and asked that no action
be taken upon the matter until the next
regular meeting. Request granted.
Ex-Mayor Lane addressed the board
in reference to the license imposing a tax
of $5 upon each company which played
in the opera house. He stated that the
effect of such a license would be to close
the opera house, and asked that the board
reconsider the matter. Referred to mis
cellaneous committee.
Chairman Moore presented the follow
ing petition:
To the Honorable Board of Mayor and Al
dermen, Birmingham; Gentlemen:
Your petitioners, representing various
religious and literary organizations, of
women in the city, respectfully petition
your honorable body to give indorsement
to the effort being made by the women of
this state for the establishment of a re
formatory for young criminals by adopt
ing the enclosed resolution or taking such
other action in the premises as you may
deem proper and right. Respectfully,
MRS. R. D. JOHNSTON,
MRS. a. O. LANE,
MRS. ixc SMITH,
MRS. F. Y. ANDERSON.
The resolution:
Whereas, a number p? good women of
the city have Joined heartily in the effort
being made by those in other parts of
the state to have established a reforma
tory for young criminals at Mount Ver
non, and have petitioned thls'board to
give indorsement to their efforts; there
fore be it
Resolved, That this board heartily in
dorses the bill now pending before the
general assembly, known as the “Cun
ningham bill No. 104,” believing that the
main features of this bill, to-wlt, sections
35, 36, 37 and 38, look toward the estab
lishment of the proposed institution,
Resolved, That this board heartily
unites with all agencies looking to the
eetabllshment of this w-orthy enterprise
and earnestly request our representa
tives in the general assembly to vote andl
use their influence In this behalf.
Alderman Price moved the adoption of
the resolution. Carried unanimously.
The board then went into executive ses
sion.
EXECUTIVE SESSION.
The amended license ordinance was
the principal thing discussed and the
following were finally adopted:
“An ordinance entitled an ordinance
to present and fix'licenses for business,
occupations and professions In Birming
ham for the year 1897.”
Be it ordained by the mayor and aider
men of Birmingham, That the ordinance
entitled an ordinance to prescribe and
fix licenses for the business and occupa
tions in Birmingham for the year, be and
the same is hereby amended as follows:
First. By adding section 77%, Same
where stock does not exceed $500, $25.
Second. By amending section 67 so as
to read as follows: Section 67—Electro
poise, each dealer in or agent, $50.
By adding section 182% as follows:
■Ejvciy pciBUUf iiitii ui cuipuiauuu inm
lng their own money and having at no
time more than $1,000 loaned, $25. Where
the total amount loaned at any time ex
ceeds $1,000, but does not exceed $2,500;
$50. Where the total amount loaned at
any one time exceeds $2,600; $100.
Third. By amending section 191 so as
to read as follows: Telephone companies,
for each telephone In use or rented; 60
cents.
Fourth. By amending section 193 A, so
as to read as follows: 193 A—Theater
companies, whether In licensed theater
or not, whose admission price exceeds
$1; per day, $5.
193 B—Same, where price of admis
sion Is $1 or less; per day, $2.60.
160--Same, each wholesaler; $50. Pro
vided that dealers under this section who
sell by retail shall not be charged for
retail.
Any person, firm or corporation dealing
by themselves or by agent who buys,
sells, barters or trades In any witness
certificates or tickets Issued from or by
any court Or court clerk, state or federal
or who buys, sells, barters or exchanges
any fees earned, by order to or to become
due to any clerk, deputy Clerk, deputy
marshall or commissioner of any court,
state or federal, or who buys, sells, trades
for or barters any city script, shall be re
quired to pay a license «t 1100,per annum.
An ordinance to fix the license of the
business of negotiating loans of money.
Be It ordained by the jpayor and al
dermen of Birmingham that any person,
firm or corporation carrying on the busi
ness of negotiating loans of money on
bills of sale, notes pemortgages by writ
ten correspondent or otherwise, as
agents for borrower or lender or as a
mere middle mtpv Shall pay1!'license of
$100 per annum.
OPEN SESSION.
Judiciary Committee—Alderman Alt
man. r, V >
Petition from Thomas Boreman asjes
$2,500 for Injuries sustained by falling
through a bridge In the city. Recom
mended that claim be disallowed.
Several other petitions ot a minor na
ture were read* then the Malrman spoke
of the application of dflaens from the
nelghborhqofln which „tM new sewer is
to be placafp asktngrthafc the bonds for
same be payable In one year, and stated
that at this late time it would be danger
ous to make such a change. He had
spoken to Burkhalter & Co. in reference
to the matter, and then stated that any
one desiring to take up bonds at the ex
piration of one year could do so. He ad
vised that the work be done on the plan
as first formulated, and let those who
desire to do so make other arrangements
with contractors on the outside. Report
of Judiciary committee adopted.
In- tho claim of the 'Warner-Smiley
company it was decided to take more time
upon It.
Aldernjan Ward here moved that the
ordinance be placed upon Its second read
ing. Adopted.
Placed on third reading. Carried.
Park Committee—Alderman Williams.
In reference to the proposition made
the city that the parks be leased to cer
tain florists, which had ben made to the
board, the committee recommended non
concurrence. He spoke of the rotten con
dition of the park fenceB, and recom
mended that a carpenter be appointed to
examine and see what was necessary to
be done; also recommended that the side
walk on the east side of Capitol park be
put In order.
Alderman Pierce moved that the mat
ter be carried over until the next meeting.
it was moved by Alderman McCartln.
that $25 be appropriated' for the purpose
of repairing the fences. Adopted.
Alderman Altman spoke of assessments
due the city for several years back, and
suggested that the matter be looked up
and some action taken. He moved that
a committee of five be appointed, with
the mayor as chairman, to take action
upon the subject. Motion adopted.
The mayor appointed, the following
members of the committee: Aldermen
Allman, MoCartin, Gray and McKnlght.
The city attorney wanted certain bills
to be considered by the body before the
next meeting of the legislature and it
was decided to hold a special meeting at
7:30 o’clock next Monday night for this
purpose.
The following petitions were acted
upon;
R. R. Hooker, to do business as a
butcher outside of market limits, and to
pay license quarterly. Referred to mayor
and market committee with power to
act.
W. M. Burgin—Bill of costs In cases of
appeals from criminal court In cases that
failed, amounting to $392.03. Referred
to Judiciary committee.
C. F. Enslen—Refund of tax on real
estate. Referred to Judiciary commit
tee.
MeLester & Van Hoose—Refund oCone
half of license on fireworks. Referred
to mayor with power to act.
J. J. Griggs—Asks relief from license as
physician. Referred to mayor with
power to act.
Ike Adler—Refund of merchant’s tax.
Referred to judiciary committee.
J. W. Little—Correct tax assessment.
Referred to Judiciary committee.
Felix Grown—Release from street tax.
Referred to mayor with power to act.
Adjourned to meet in special session'
Monday night.
GOES BRAVELY ON.
Committee on Designs of the Carnival So
ciety Hold an Important Meeting—
Will Be Well Advertised.
The committee on designs of the Carni
val Society had a meeting last night In
the parlors of the Metropolitan hotel, the
full committee, excepting Mr. Henry B.
Graj^, who Is at the bedside of his mother,
being present.
The first order of business discussed
was a place to have the Rex hall. The
committee having assurance that the
auditorium will be sufficiently completed,
decided to have this grand Important
feature in that building.
The committee was assured the floor
space would be 100x100, thus Insuring am
ple space for the revelers.
The galleries will have,a Eeating ca
pacity of 1,200, to which invitations will
be sold at $1 each. The stage will be used
exclusively for Rex and attendants and
the court band.
Tickets to the dancing floor will be
issued exclusively to members of the
Carnival Society In good standing, the
escorts of the king and such visitors as
are guests of Birmingham citizens for
whom application has. been made, not
later than Feb. 15. No tickets under
any consideration will be on sale for ad
mission to the dancing floor.
The committee, however, have made
special provisions for members of the
local and foreign press, who have repre
sentatives present, to whom will be ac
corded all desirable privileges.
The committee decided, instead of us
ing handbills, to issue a paper, to be
known as "The Carnival News,” contain
ing all official orders from Rex and the
grand marshal, same to appear weekly,
50,000 copies at each Issue, to be distrib
uted promiscuously within a raditis of
300 miles.
The committee decided to repeat the
formula of last year as regards diplomas
for trades displays and floats. Diplomas
will be issued by a committee.
On March 1 (Mardi Gras eve) there, will
be two parades, and also two on Mardi
Gras, one In the afternoon and one at
night of each day.
The location of the bureau of Informa
tion has been decided upon as the union
depot, the railroad officials having grant
ed same gratuitously.
The committee on finance reported fa
vorable progress and will continue work.
The contract for billing the carnival
having been let to Messrs. Thelss &
Smith, that firm will set about their im
mense task as soon as the. posters and
lithographs arrive. The. committee ex
pressed themselves as having full con
fidence In Ben Thelss and Nat Smith,
and are certain Birmingham’s monster
carnival will be made known to the peo
ple In every city. town, village and ham
let from Nashville to the gulf and from
the Atlantic to the far west. Messrs.
Thelss & Smith are well up in the bill
posting line, and will follow the tactics
employed by veteran showmen in their
work. Arriving at a town they will pay
their respects to its environments and
then with vehicles explore the country
for miles around.
The carnival Is on a boom, and will ride
to success on a high tide of popular en
thusiasm.
OFFICIAL REX BALL.
Parties desiring to secure Invitations
to the official Rex ball, which will be held
In the new auditorium on Carnival Day,
March 2, In honor of his majesty, Rex
Vulcan II., are Informed that books of
application are now open. All applica
tions for resident citizens as well as for
expected guests must be made not later
than February 15, and must'be sent to
either of the following gentlemen com
posing the committee on Invitations:
Messrs. F. Y. Anderson, Rufus N.
j Rhodes, A. M. Lopez, E. J. McCrossln,
B. Steiner, E. Lesser.
Under no circumstances will an ap
plication be considered which reaches the
committee later than February 15.
THE B'HAM CARNIVAL SOCIETY.
E. Lesser, President.
L. Braun, Secretary.
FAILED TO APPEAR.
Washington, Jan. 11.—The monthly
crop report cf the department of agri
culture, which la annually Issued on the
MRU of each month, did1 not appear today,
awing to delay In receipt of reports from
some of the department's correspondents.
It will be sent out during the week.
THE END DF THE HEARING
Ways and MeansCommitteeCon
cludes Its Work
OF HEARING THE REQUESTS
For Protection of Home Industf * for the
Benefit of Manufactujjp
- o'
SUNDRIES AND THE * REE LIST
-/
Draws Out a Large Htum'y ,of Representa
tives of Business Cr® rns—McKin
ley Hates E*5gu£-. in all the
Argument® Made.
Washington, Jan. 11.—The tariff hear
ings before the ways and means commit
tee were concluded today, the schedules
containing “sundries’’ and the “free list"
being considered. Representative Corliss,
of Michigan, asked a protective duty on
tobacco, lumber, fish, wool, and other In
dustries of his state. J. R. Smith, of
Waterbury, Conn., representing the man
ufacturers of vegetable Ivory buttons,
asked a specific duty on buttons of 1 cent
per line or one-fortieth of an Inch per
gross, and 25 per cent, ad valorem.
N. S. Greenoch, of Cleveland, on behalf
of the manufacturers of coal tar, asked
a small specific duty on this article and
a duty on Its principal product, pitch, of
$2 per ton. Both articles are now on the
free list.
i\,x-jjiayor ecnieien, oi jjrooaiyn, meu
a paper protesting against any increase
in the. duties on hides.
J. C. Storey and C. C. Kemp, of Boston,
protested against placing a tax on coal
tar. The domestic supply was insuffi
cient to meet the demand, and if a duty
were placed on the product manufactur
ers using it would be driven out of bus
iness.
Abe Gruber, of New York, spoke on the
subject of wearing apparel brought in
by tourists. A duty on this class of
goods would yield a duty of $10,000,000
per annum. In this connection he cited
the Astor case, which caused a member
of the committee to remark that all
tourists were not Astors.
Mr. Gruber replied: “No, and there will
be less Astors here if this law is not
changed.”
L. Littauer, of New York, advocated
duties on gloves at the rate of $2, $3 and
$4 per dozen, according to grades.
W. J. Curtis, of New York, asked the
committee not to discriminate against
any particular class of gloves.
Mr. Llttauer, intefruptlng, said that the
rates suggested were particularly de
sired on ladies' gloves.
Kennet H. Barnhart, representing
Marshall, Field & Co., of Chicago, coun
seled moderation in. duties arid submitted
a schedule covering goods imported by
his firm.
Charles E. Smith, of New York, a glove
importer, was willing to have 20 per cent,
added to the present duty on gloves.
Specific duties on the basis he recom
mended, he said, would yield a revenue of
about $2,900,000 annually.
Representative Keifer, of Minnesota,
on behalf of his constituents, requested
a restoration of the McKinley rates on
potatoes’ and starch.
Representative Linney, of North Caro
lina, said that North Carolina had a new.
industry, the mining of “monezite,” a
product used in a patent light apparatus.
Brazil was driving the domestic article
out of the market and he desired as hlgK
a duty as the committee could give.
W. J. Farrell, of New York, an Importer
In corks, requested a reduction in the
duty on corks, the duty to be made spe
cial at 7 cents per pound in those manu
factured with cork squares on the free
list.
H. Wallerstein, of New York, repre
senting the importers of shoe leather,
spoke against any increase in the duty
on this article. About 90 per cent, of
the Shoe leather consumed in the United
States was of domestic product. About
$8,963,000 worth was exported last year,
while but $2,880,314 was imported. The
latter were principally enamelled qnd
patent leathers not produced here. Amer
ican makers were beginning to export
shoes and he thought an increase in the
duty on leather would hurt this trade.
H. Burke, of Philadelphia, representing
the makers of glazed kid and Morocco
leathers, said the present duty on those
goods was adequate, but desired the pres
ent ad valorem duty made specific. Ten
years ago glazed kid was almost entirely
imported and sold for 80 cents per square
foot. Today glazed kid of a superior
quality was made here and sold for 35
cents.
This is one or the Industries that had
been built up under protection. In a few
years he thought patent leather would be
made successfully here. The only ar
ticles on which he desired an Increase
were East India tanned skins, which were
of Inferior quality and were driving do
mestic goods out of the market.
O. J. Kraft, of New Jersey, a maker of
piano leathers, asked an Increase In the
duty on buckskin.
Frank C. Hapet, of Plainfield, N. J.,
a manufacturer of chamois skins appeal
ed for a duty of 35 cents on these articles.
On the passage of the McKinley bill he
had closed his factory in France and
moved It to the United States. Under the
present circumstances he had hardly
been able to exist.
L. D. Brandis, a representative of the
New England Free Trade league, on be
half of the consumers and business men
of New England, objected to a change in
the condition of things. They wanted to
be left In peace. If this were done busi
ness would revive.
When It was suggested by a member of
the committee that revenue was needed
he said that $32,000,000 could be raised by
e tax on beer.
Representative Morse, of Massachu
setts, on behalf of the Jewelry manufac
turers of New England, asked an Increase
In the duty on Jewelry.
H. G. Tresher, of Providence, R. I., said
the Jewelry business was greatly de
pressed. Not only was a higher rate of
duty required, but a new classification
was needed, as the present law was be
ing evaded and Jewelry was being Im
ported under the metal schedule. A duty
of 75 cents would be required.
J. A. Bannister, of Newark, N. J., de
sired the present rates on leather con
tinued.
J. H. Collet, of New York, representing
two hundred and fifty artificial flower
manufacturers, said the importation of
these goods were depriving American
workmen of $2,000,000 in wages annually.
The competition here was now so great
that It was like fifty dogs fighting for one
Bone. Under the present law the raw ma
terial they used was paying more duty
than the finished product.
Representative Sparkman, of Florida,
desired the rate on orangei, lemons *hfl;■
limes suggested a few days ago by Rep
resentatlve Bowers, of California. He
also asked that grape fruit be taken from
the free list and a duty be imposed.
A. Gompers, of New York, representing
the diamond workers of the United
States, said their business could not ex
ist under present conditions, and asked
for 15 per cent, on manufactured dia
monds,with the stones in the rough on the
free list. This was the lowest rate under
which cutters and polishers could live.
C. Tomkins, of New York, desired that
gypsum rock, used extensively in the
manufacture of plaster of paris, be al
lowed to remain on the free list.
Represertatlve Rinaker, of Illinois, on
behalf of Chicago factories, asked that
asbestos be taken from the free list and
made dutiable at 30 per cent.
R. B. Gregory, of Chicago, on behalf of
the manufacturers and importers of mu
sical instruments, requested that the
presest rates of duty on these goods be
allowed to stand.
Ex-Senator Davis, West Virginia,
speaking on coal, said ihat the duty on
bituminous coal was much too low, con
sidering either the revenue required by
the government or an equitable distribu
tion of duties. The duty should be 75
cents.
Under the McKinley bill a revenue of
$882,188 was collected, w’hlle under the
Wilson bill but $486,158 was yielded.
Mr. C. F. .Mayer, of Baltimore, also de
sired the restoration of duty of 1873 on
coal—75 cents per ton.
Mr. E. H. McCullough, of Pennsylva
nia, also advocated an Increase of duty
in behalf of the 300,000 men employed in
tho coal trade.
Col. William Lamb, of Norfolk, Va.,
said that the Pocahontas coal region had
lost 25 per cent, of Its business under the
Wilson law. About 95 per cent, of the
coal used on the Pacific coast was com
ing from Wales and ruining the business
of the coast miners.
Mr. W. C. Barry, of New York, repre
senting the nurserymen of America, ap
pealed for protection on "nursery stock.”
Mr. L. W. Cox, of Charlottesville, Va.,
asked for a duty on slate pencils.
Mr. J. A. Ross, of Philadelphia, a maker
of clay pipes, complained of the state of
that business, and requested a duty of
15 per ce.nt. on these articles.
Chairman Dlngley announced that this
would close the public hearings.
Mr. Dlngley today exploded the rumors
that the new tariff bill would be re
ported to the house this session. He
doubted if It would be finished by the 4th
of ‘March, and if it is there is no Inten
tion of laying It before the house until
the extra session. The measure will be
subject to change not only until It is
reported, but during the general debate
on the floor, as well as open to amend
ment when it Is considered under the
five-minute rule. The republican mem
bers of the committee will work on the
bill as a whole.
STANDARD SILVER DOLLARS
Continue to Be Issued by the Treasury—
Those Confirmations.
Washington, Jan. 11.—The Issue of
standard silver dollars from the mints
and treasury offices for the week ended
January 9 was $194,349, and for the cor
responding period last year was $168,250.
The shipment of ractlonal sliver coin
from January 2 to 9 aggregated $108,770.
The shipment of fractional silver coin
at the meeting this afternoon on the nu
merous Judgship nominations now pend
ing before It. The two against which the
most opposition Is manifested are those
of William D. 'J*»«ugh, to be district
Judge for the dtstrlct of Nebraska, and
Charles B. Howry, to be asosclate Justice
of the court of claims. Both of these
cases were postponed for two weeks.
Since the last meeting of the committee
a great many petitions favorable to the
confirmation of Mr. McHugh have been
filed with the committee, but the opposi
tion has not yet completed its brief.
The committee ordered a favorable re
port on the nomination ,of William H.
White, to be district attorney for the
district of Virginia.
TO HIDE A ROBBERY
A Fire Is Started Which Destroys One
Half of a Town.
Charleston, S. C., Jan. 11.—A special to
the News and Courier from Olar, S. C.,
says: Fire last night burned nearly half
of Ulmers, a small station on the Florida
Central and Peninsula railroad, Barn
well county. It originated in Griffin’s
store about 2 o'clock and spread rapidly,
everything being dry and the wind high
and water scarce. The town is built on
both sides of the railroad and nearly
the whole of the side on which the Are
started is now in ashes.
Griffin’s store, in which the fire origin
ated, had the appearance of having been
broken open and robbed and that is the
only solution so far offered for the fire.
The total loss is estimated at $15,000; the
total insurance at $2,000.
NO CHANGE OF SITUATION.
Raleigh, N. C., Jan. 11.—There has been
no new move In the senatorial contest
since the bolt of the Pritchard populists
last Friday night, except Senator But
ler’s attempt to get a full meeting of all
the populists, bolters included, Saturday
afternoon, at which meeting the bolters
failed to materialize and not enough of
the others assembled to make a quorum,
and In consequence no action was taken.
The populists that walked out of the
caucus firmly stand by Pritchard—nine
teen of them. The Tribune will say to
morrow, through Its Washington corre
spondent, that there is a move on the part
of the democrats to import Influential
populists to win back the bolters. Money
is said to be behind the scheme, but from
the character of the men who bolted there
Is no hope for democratic-populists.
WILL SPAIN CONSENT?
Washington, Jan. 11.—The America
National Red CroFs association official»
tendered its services in Cuba, through i B
president, a month ago, and later Mit W.
Clara Barton, the president, offered the '
Individual services of herself and assist
ants, as in the relief expedition to Tur
key, the two necessary conditions being
that acceptance and entry be afforded by
the Spanish government, and that the
funds needed to supply such relief be
provided, as was the case in Armenia, by
the American people. Up to the present
time not a dollar of contributions from
any source has been offered and the
Spanish government is still holding the
Red Cross proposition under advise
ment.
PREPARED FOR THE END.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Jan. 11.—George B.
Woodworth, aged 6H. was found dead In
his room this morning, having shot him
self. He had dressed himself with care
and laying down deliberately fired the
fatal shot. Discouragement over busi
ness reverses Is believed to have led to
the act. The deceased was once a well
to-do man. His family moved in the best
society, and a daughter is an accomplish
ed musician now studying in New York
city.
ROBBED AN EMPTY SAFE.
Meridian, Miss., Jan. 11.—The Southern
Express company’s office was entered by
burglars early this morning by drilling a
panel out of the rear door. The express
meFsenger’s safe was taken to a promi
nent resident street and burated open
with a hammer. Express agents claim
'■that nothing was In the safe. No clue to
th^robbers. <BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 22.
BIRMINGHAM, ALA.. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 189 7.
NUMBER 3t2
I
PROCTOR'S PROPOSED PLAN j
To Have Presidential Elections!
Every Six Years
MEETS WITH OPPOSITION.
Senator Allen, In Advocating the
Homesteads Bill Says
THAT THE REIGN OF BANKRUPTCY
Is a Logical Consequence of the Present
Governmental Policy—Unusual Beene
4nthe House—Senate Confirma
tions—Vacancies Pilled
Washington, Jan. 12.—After the trans- i
action of some routine, morning business j
the senate at 12:15, on motion of Mr. Sher
man (rep. O.), proceeded to the consider
ation of executive business.
The doors were re-opened at 12:30 and
legislative business was resumed. A bill
was introduced by Mr. Hill and referred
to the postofllee committee, proposing to
fix the term of fourth-class postmasters
at four years, except in the case of ap
pointments to fill vacancies, when they
are to be for the unexpired portion of the
term.
He explained and advocated the meas
ure as one which would start political
bookkeeping on correct, principles ar.d
bookkeeping on correct principles, and
would be fair to all parties, Mr. Hill al
moval of fourth-class postmasters.
The retoilutlons on which Mr. Proctor
spoke yesterday, fixing the presidential
term at s‘ix years and prohibiting re-elec
tion, were taken up to give an opportuni
ty to Mr. Stewart (pop. Nev.), to express
his views upon them. He favored the
prohibition of re-election, but he con
sidered the extension of the term to six
years most objectionable. He would
much prefer to have the term limited to
two years. The strain of a four-year
election was about all that the country
could stand. If the President were elect
ed for two years he would come into
power In h'armony with the congress
elected at the same time.
The resolutions were referred to the
committee on privileges and elections.
Mr. Chandler presented a memorial
from Henry A. Dupont, claiming to have
been elected to u seat in the Untied
States senate on May. 1895, and urging
the re-opening of the question. The me
morial was referred to the committee on
privileges and elections.
The house hill for free homesteads on
public lands acquired from tbe Indian
tribes was taken up as the unfinished
business. It was advocated by Mr. Al
len, who declared that the existing
"reign of bankruptcy and suicide” was
the logical consequence of the financial
policy adopted by the government. It
was opposed by Mr. Vilas, (dem. of Wis
consin), because it would surrender $35,
000,000 in money, part of which was un
der contracts between the government
and settlers on those public lands, and
because it would give rise to claims for
the refunding of all the money hereto
fore received by the government from
settlers on Indian lands. In the course
of the duscussion there was an amusing
interchange of thrusts and parijies be
tween Senators Vilas and Allen in rela
tion to which was the real democratic
platform, that adopted at Chicago or that
adopted at Indianapolis, Mr. Vilas as
serting that the former was against the
best interests of the United States and
that the latter was founded throughout
on democracy.
The bill went over without action and
the senate at 5:40 p. m. adjourned until
tomorrow.
SENATE CONFIRMATIONS.
Washington, Jan. 12.—The senate to
day oonflrmed the following nominations:
T. S. Doyle, of Virginia, to be consul
at Beirut, Syria.
W. H. White, United States attorney
for the eastern district of Virginia.
Post Masters—Tennessee. W. M. Far
rington, Memphis; J. W. Clark, Ripley;
D. D. Scott, Jellico.
Florida—James F. Corbett, Punta Cor
da, De Soto county.
Douislana—Albert F. Derouen, Jen
nings, Caleasiu parish; William B. Tay
lor, Mansfield. De Soto parish.
Georgia—William Gallagher, Sanders
ville, Washington county.
Texas—A. L. Fairchild, Gainesville.
IN THE HOUSE.
A member of congress acknowledging
on the floor of the house to his heather
members and to the galleries that he had
been guilty of a violation of the criminal
, laws and had been indicted for it, was
the remarkable spectacle presented under
the capitol dome today. The circum
stances connected with the affair fol
lowed in natural sequence the bitter de
bate last Friday while the Pacific rail
road irefundlng bill was pending. On
that d'ay Mr. Johnson, of California,
made an .attack on Mr. William R.
Hearst, of the New York Journal and the
San Francisco Examiner. Today he
found in the Congressional Record a col
umn of print devoted to personal refer
ences to himself inserted by Mr. Ma
guire, of California, under leave to print.
Rising to make a personal explanation,
Mr. Johnson, his voice frequently breuk
Ing with passion, criticised Mr. Maguire
severely for attacking him in that man
ner and not on the floor. He admitted
thait he had been indicted In such a case,
as charged by Mr. Maguire, but had
atoned for his offense. He raid that his
full record was known to the people of
his congressional district; that they had
shown their belief In him by sending him
to congress. Mr. Johnson’s remarks were
applauded several times. Concerning Mr.
Maguire, his colleague, he called him a
"human hyena" and other such terms,
and also bitterly denounced Mr. Hearst.
Quite as vigorous was Mr. Maguire's re
sponse. He defended Mr. Hearst and
himself and did not spare Mr. Johnson.
After several roll calls the house dis
posed of the matter by expunging Mr.
Maguire's remarks from the Record.
The hope of those members of the house
Who are anxious to secure some legisla
tion with reference to the Pacific rail
roads this session was quenched by ia
decision of Speaker Reed.
Yesterday Mr. Powers moved that the
bill be recommitted to the committee on
Pacific railroads, but objection was made
that this was not In order, as other busi
ness had Intervened. Speaker Reed ask
ed until today to render a decision and
Soon after the' house met he stated his
pplnion that the motion of the gentlemen
from Vermont to recommit the bill was
not in order. The motion, he sain, could
have been made If the house had passed
the bill to a third reading, or tf other busi
ness had not Intervened. No demonstra
tion followed the announcement.
The bill to better define the rights of
aliens In the territories, which was pass
ed over temporarily yesterday, was taken
up under the call of committees.
Mr. McEwan said that with the excep
tion of one section this was the same bill
that had been defeated In the house Dee.
10, but he made no point of order on that
ground and the bill was passed by a ris
ing vote—ages 59, nays 26.
A resolution providing for the payment
of the expense of the last Illness and
funeral of ex-Speaker Crisp, amounting
to $1,480, was passed.
A bill was passed providing for a bridge
over the Red river at Alexandria, La., by
the Kansas City, Watkins and Gulf Rail
way company, and at 5 o’clock the house
adjourned until tomorrow.
FILLed VACANCIES.
Speaker Reed Names Members -of Com
mittees Where Places Were Void.
Washington, Jan. 12.—Speaker Reed,
Just before the adjournment today, filled
the vacancies on the committee on rules
and on the committee on ways and means,
caused by the death of the late Mr. Crisp,
of Georgia.
Several gentlemen, who desired an ap
pointment to the ways and means com
mittee, have exerted considerable in
fluence upon the speaker to secure the
office, and it was thought for a time that
it would be given to Mr. Newlands. of
Nevada, who was unusually well in
dorsed. The speaker, however, gave the
place to Mr. BoatneT, of Louisiana, whose
seat was declared vancant at the last
session of congress and who, since his re
election to fill out the remainder of the
present term, has been without a com
mittee assignment. The vacancy on the
rules committee was filled by the ap
pointment of Mr. Bailey, of Texas. Mr.
Boatner Is now regarded as one of the
ablept lawyers In the house and a tire
less and Indefatigable committee worker.
Mr. Bailey Is one of the youngest mem
bers of the house, although his services
of six consecutive years, with a re-elec
tion to the next congress, makes him
something of a veteran In point of experi
ence.
Mr. Stokes, of South Carolina, who.
like Mr. Boatner, was unseated last year,
was assigned to the committee on agri
culture and public buildings and grounds.
Mr. Charles Crisp, the eon of the late
Speaker Crisp, who was elected la ft
month to serve out the remainder of his
father’s term, was assigned to the post
office and mileage committees.
SUPREME COURT
Hands Down a Number of Important
Decisions—Additional Orders
Granted.
Montgomery Ala.. Jan. 12.—(Special.)—
The following decisions were rendered
by the supreme court today:
Brickell, C. J.—Ex-parte the state of
Alabama., application for mandamus to
judge of city court of Montgomery; man
damus denied.
Henry McSwean vs. the state of Ala
bama. appeal from Barbour circuit court;
affirmed.
Dick Ramsey vs. the state of Alabama,
appeal from Anniston city court; revers
ed and remanded.
McClellan, J.—Charlie Hunter vs. Che
state of Alabama, appeal from Wilcox
circuit court; affirmed.
Coleman, J.—M P.* Wilcox vs. San
Jose Fruit Packing company, appeal
from Montgomery circuit court; reversed
and remanded.
Head, J.—N. C. Dean vs. The Elyton
Hand company, et al., appeal from Jef
ferson chancery court; reversed and re
manded.
Haralson, J.—O. F. Haley, administra
tor, etc., vs. the Kansas City, Memphis
and Birmingham Railroad company, ap
peal from Lamar circuit court; reversed
and remanded.
THE SUPREME COURT OF ALA
BAMA.
The following additional orders were
granted by the supreme court today:
George A. Prestwood vs. Troy Fertilizer
company, from Coffee chancery court;
leave to revive in name of John Gamble.
Jr., administrator, etc., by consent; leave
to seveT, etc., and submitted on briefs.
Troy Fertilizer company et al. vs.
Georgia Prestwood, from Pike chancery
court; leave to revive in name of John
Gamble, Jr., administrator, etc., by con
sent, and submitted on briefs.
W. A. Mann et al. vs. J. W. Cassad.v,
from Dale circuit court; leave to with
draw counter-abstracts by consent, and
submitted on briefs.
J. J. 'Watson et al. vs. J. J. Herring,
from Dale circuit court; leave to amend
abstracts and submitted on briefs.
E. R. Beasley et al. vs. D. D. Howell,
administrator, from Coffee circuit court;
submitted on briefs.
W. J. Keith vs. Converse Bridge com
pany, front Geneva chancery court; con
tinued by consent.
Jas. M. Clements et al. vs. H. B. Cox
et al., from Geneva chancery court; sub
mitted on briefs.
T. W. Shows vs, James Folm'ar Sons &
Co., from Crenshaw chancery court; cer
tiorari, etc., for appellees.
Thomas W. Terry vs. the Mutual Life
Insurance company. New York, from
Henry circuit court; appellant taxed with
$10 of the costs for non-compliance with
abstract rule, etc., and submitted on
briefs.
Joel D. Murphree vs. John Summerlin,
from Crenshaw chancery court; submit
ted on briefs.
E. M. C. Howling vs. A. P. White, from
Dale circuit court; submitted on briefs.
P. H. Morris vs. the Eufaula National
bank, from Barbour circuit court; ar
gued and eubmltted.
H. W. Day et al. vs. Thomas Pryor,
from Barbour chancery court; leave to
sever, etc., and submitted on briefs.
Cliff A. Locke vs. Lizzie G. Reeves et al.,
from Barbour circuit court; submitted on
briefs.
Eufaula Grocery company vs. Missouri
National bank, from Barbour circuit
court: submitted on briefs.
Weedon & Dent vs. N. A. Brown et al.,
from Barbour chancery court; continued
by consent, citation to N. A. Brown.
Maria Walton vs. H. H. Parker, from
Barbour circuit court; submitted on
briefs.
Glaser, Kuder & Ottensosser et al. vs.
J. Meyrovitz et al., from Barbour chan
cery court; leave to sever, etc., and sub
mitted on briefs.
A. L. Richardson vs. E. E. Stephens,
from Barbour circuit court; argued and
submitted.
J. A. Tew et al. vs. J. E. Henderson,
from Pike circuit court; leave to sever,
etc.
Grade E. Kindred vs. The New Eng
land Mortgage Security company, from
Pike chancery* court; submitted on briefs.
J. J Watson et al. vs. J. J. Herring,
from Dale circuit court; submission set
aside on motion of appellee.
Dora Rovelsky et al. vs. R. Scheuer et
al., from Dale chancery court; leave to
sever, submitted on briefs on motion and
merits.
INDICTED FOR FILIBUSTERING.
Wilmington, Del., Jan. 12.—The grand
Jury in the United States court found
a true bill this afternoon against Capt.
Edward Murphy. He Is charged with
having taken a filibustering party to
Cubs on the steamer I>aurada last sum
mer. Murphy was recently wrecked on
the steamer Commodore, off the Florida
coast.
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE
Called By the Indianapolis Board
of Trade
OPENS FOR BUSINESS
Three Hundred Delegates Representing Cities
Ail Over the Country
HEARD THE CALL FOR A CONFERENCE
Read By the Beeretary—Temporary Officers
Mamed and the Hours For Work
Designated—Few Specta
tors Present.
Indianapolis. Jnd., Jan. 12.—The nation
al monetary conference, called at the re
quest of the Indianapolis board of trade
and composed of representatives of simi
lar organizations from all parts of the
country, assembled In Tomlinson hall this
afternoon. The arrangement of the hall
was in general similar to that of the gold
convention held in the same place last
December. The decorations were much
more moderate, however, consisting of
the national colors, draped over the plat
form.
There was a sprinkling of spectators
In the galleries, and the hour preceding
the beginning of business was enlivened
by music from a band.
The convention was. called to order at
2:35 o’clock by Hugh J. Hanna, chairman
of the executive committee, under whose
management the arrangements for the
convention were made, ami who originat
ed the movement culminating in the
mt'eting today.
He introduced Rev. L. M. Hayes, pas
tor of the First Presbyterian church, who
opened the proceedings with prayer. In
the name of the execulive committee Mr.
Hanna extended a cordial welcome to the
delegates. They understood and appre
ciated the sacrifice made by business men
in coming to the convention at. this period
of the year.
Mr. J. W. Smith, secretary of the In
dianapolis board of public works, read
the call under which the convention as
sembled.
The emphatic terms of the call declar
ing it to be the sentiment of the business
men of the country that they should take
part in shaping the financial legislation
of the country, and that they would never
agree to any proposition which would de
grade the present standard of values,
were received with applause.
Mr. H'anna presented the report of
the executive committee.
Pursuant to the resolutions of instruc
tion adopted at a. preliminary conference
December 1, it said, the committee has
sent out invitations to the boards of
trade, commercial clubs and such like
organizations of all the cities of the
United States of a population of 8,000 and
greater, according to the last census, re
questing them to send delegations to
this convention. There are assembled
here 300 delegates, representing business
organizations of cities in nearly every
state in the union.
The committee recommended for the
temporary organization, a committee on
credentials, on permanent organization,
on rules and order of Business, each con
sisting of fifteen members.
That all resolutions concerning the
currency and banking systems and
mode of procedure shall be referred with
out debate to the committee on resolu
tions, to be appointed by the permanent
chairman.
That each delegate present ifhall be en
titled to one vote<
That the hours for holding the ses
sions shall be: Morning seslson, 10 a.
m. to 1 p. m.: afternoon session, 2:30 p. m.
to 6 p. m.; evening session, 8 p. m. to 10
p. m.
For temporary chairman, the executive
committee recommended E. O. Stannard,
of St. I.ouls; for temporary secretary,
Jacob W. Smith,, of Indianapolis, and
for sergeant-at-arms, W. C. Galt, of In
dianapolis. ,
The report was.adopted and Mr. Hanna
appointed William E. Dodge, of New
York, and N. L. Crawford, of Texas, a
committee to escort Gov. Stannard to
the platform.
Gov. Stannard’s recommendations In
his speech on taking the chair, that the
greenbacks should be retired, that na
tional banks should be permitted to issue
notes up to the par value of bonds de
posited to secure their payment; that
paper notes of less than 15, or $10, should
be circulated’ in the interest of a more
general use of silver, met the general ap
proval of the delegates.
The committee provided for in the re
port of the executive committee was then
appointed, the following being chairmen
respectively: On permanent organiza
tion. E. B. Martlndale, Indiana; rules and
order, E. V. Smalley, Minnesota; creden
tials, . H. Anderson. Michigan.
The committees immediately retired for
business and while' they were gone ex
Secretary Charles S. Fairchild, of New
York, was introduced and addressed the
convention.
Mr. John P. Irish, of California, follow
ed.
The committee on credentials then re
ported that J70 delegates had been en
rolled, represnting among others the
trade and commercial organizations of
the fololwing cities: Albany, N. Y.; An
niston, Ala.; Atlanta. Ga.; Baltimore,
Chicago, Bridgeport, Conn.; Brooklyn. N.
Y.; Buffalo, N. Y.; Camden, N. J.; Can
ton, O.; Charleston, S. C.; ChiHicothe, O.;
Columbus. O.; Cincinnati; Cleveland;
Concord, N. H.; Dallas, Tex.; Dayton, O.;
Detroit; Duluth; Elizabeth, N. J.; Erie,
Pa.; Findlay, O.; Hartford. Conn.; Hel
ena, Mont.; Johnstown ,. Pa.; Kansas
City, Mo.: Knoxville, Tenn.; Jdttle Rock,
Ark.; Logansport, Trid.; ’Louisville, Ky.;
Lowell, Mass.; Macon, Ga.; Meridian,t
Cann.; Milwaukee; Minneapolis; Mont
gomery, Ala.; Nashville; Newark, O.;
Newark, N. J.; New jHaven, Conn.; New
York; Oswego, N. Y.; Pittsburg, Pa.;
Philadelphia, Pa.; Rockland, Me.; Provi
dence, R. I.; Richmond, Va.; Rochester,
N. Y.; St. Louis; St. Pgul; ,Sam Antonio
Tex.; Springfield, O.: Savannah, Ga.;
Syracuse, N. Y.; Troy, N. Y.; Utica, N.
Y.; Vicksburg, Miss.; ^afehlbgton, D. C.;
Wilkesbarre, ’ Da.; Worcester, Mass.;
Yonkers, N. Y.; Yankton, D,, and
Zanesville, O.
The committee ,on rules .and order of
business presented .Its repert, i the chief
feature of which was a ^rovisibn for re
stricting debate,’ mkkihgi ’ the extreme
limit for speeches to half am hour and
confining most of them to five and ten
minutes each. _ _
It was adoptffl. V J
The committee on permanent organiza
tion recommended the name of C. Stuart
Patterson, Of Pennsylvania, for president,
•nd a vice-president from each state rep
resented. Evans Woolen,'- of(.,Ind;anapo
H*. was named for permanent secretary;
•nd A. F. Ct Galt, sergeftBNfct-arms. It
was also renpounendeif' tbit the other
V#T W X
committees named be continued and that
a committee on resolutions of one from
each state he appointed. Adopted.
Mr. Patterson was escorted to the plat
form and addressed the convention. In
accordance with the provisions of the re
port on permanent organization the rtate
delegations selected vice-presidents and
members of the committee on resolutions.
The latter were reported as follows:
Minnesota, W. B. Dean; Ohio, M. E. In
galls; Tennessee, T. C. Power; Pennsyl
vania. J, C- Bullitt; Iowa, Ed A. Temple;
Georgia, R. P. Bullock; Maine, C. I'\ Lib
by; Illinois. Franklin McVeagh; (Missis
sippi, C. W. Robinson; Massachusetts. H.
L. Higgins; Rhode Island, Rasiand Hag
5ard: Missouri. George E. Layton; New
prsey. Renjamin L. Ayeock; Michigan,
N. A. Fletcher; Wisconsin, F. H. Magede
burg; Alabama, N. C. Tompkins; Arkan
sas, H. L. Render; Texas, M. L. OfTut;
District of Columbia, B.r H. Warner;
Maryland, J. M. Nelson; Kentucky, Lo
gan C. Murray; Virginia, S. W. Traverse;
New York, W. E. Dodge; Indiana, H. H.
Hanna; California, John P. Irish.
Mr. J. H. Walker, of Massachusetts,
chairman of the house committee on
banking and currency in the present con
gress, was invited to address the con
vention, which he consented to do.
'At the conclusion of Mr. Walker’s re
marks the convention took a recess until
8 o’clock this evening.
THE EVENING GESSION.
The evening session was called to order
by Chairman Patterson at 8:20 p. m. M.
E. Ingalls was recognized to move that
the committee on resolutions should be
permitted to retire and sit during the
session. It was so ordered.
Mr. J. H. Rhodes was then recognized
and allowed twenty minutes to present
the views of the New York Chamber of
Commerce, which he represented. He
stated that if the country was allowed
much longer to hold the present financial
course, disaster and wreck will certainly
result. He said that what the country
needs is stability of all kinds, stable tar
iff, stable govconment and stable cur
rency. He said that prosperity can only
be restored by the establishment of a
“sound money’’ system. Mr. Rhodes was
applauded when he said that he could
see no reason why the government should
not base all its issues upon the gold
standard and replace all notes by coin
certificates protected by a 25 per cent,
gold reserve. In cfosing, Mr. Rhodes de
nied with much feeling the charge that
there is hostility in New York and other
cities of tha east toward the west.
Mr. Dausman, of Chicago, pres nted
the first proposition for the considera
tion of the convention. It provided for
the appointment of a committee of nine
members to be appointed by the Presi
dent of the United States within thirty
days Including one member of the senate
committee on finance, and one from the
house committee on banking and cur
rency. The committee shall investigate
the financial subject, sitting in Washing
ton, and make report to congress of their
conclusions by bill or otherwise. The
members, other than the senator and rep
resentative named, shall be paid for their
services by the government. There shall
be hunkers, three merchants or manu
facturers, and one a political economist
representing the several geographical sec
tions of the country.
Some Indiana delegates, through E. F.
Claypool, presented a scheme prefaced
by a review of all banking experiences in
the United States, the reading of which
occupied all the time alloted to its pre
sentation and it went to the committee
on resolutions without the scheme being
disclosed to the convention.
M\ Chadwick, of Brooklyn, offered a
resi!'>ttion directing the committee on
resolutions to take into consideration the
expediency of corporating into the na
tional bank system of the principle of
Scottish branch banks.
Mr. Peat offered the resolution adopted
by the St. Paul chamber of commerce, ad
vocating the maintenance of the gold
standard, withdrawal of the government
from, the banking business and the ex
tension of the national bank system by
the establishment of branches and the
reduction of the minimum capital stock
required of such institutions to $25,000.
Ueorge G. Tanner, of Indianapolis, of
fered a series of resolutions declaring in
favor of a refunding of the national debt,
the retirement of greenbacks, a more
expansive system of national bank cur
rency and the imposition of severe pen
alties upon national bank directors for
failure of duty, to be presented to con
gress by a committee of the convention.
Mr. H. H. Hanna, of Indianapolis, pre
sented a scheme for the appointment of
a monetary commission of eleven mem
bers to be named by the convention and
to work at the expense of the convention
In investigating the financial subject,
their conclusions to be reported to an ad
journd meeting of the convention with
a view to their representation to con
gress if legislation should be deemed de
sirable.
Mr. Eugene Levering, nr Baltimore,
representing a community noted for its
conservative banking methods, as evi
denced, he said, by the fact that Balti
more had had no bank failures for the
last sixty years, presented a series of
resolutions from that delegation declar
ing that legislation was necessary for
the maintenance of the gold standard,
cancellation of United States legal ten
der notes, the simultaneous creation of
a safe expansive currency upon the
basis of the Baltimore plan.
S. T. Cudaer, of Texas, offered a reso
lution favoring the establishment of pos
tal savings banks.
T. B. Tedru-m, of Savannah, Ga.. pre
sented what he described as a modifica
tion of the Baltimore plan on the line of
additional safeguards around the issue of
notes. It constitutes a department of
finance consisting of three comptrollers
with a deputy in each state to have
charge of the issues of notes, and with
authority to examine all banks of is
sue.
Joseph S. Wood, of "Mount Vernon, N.
Y., offered a resolution, declaring that In
ternational bimetallism ms impractica
ble and could not be maintained; that
silver dollars be legal tendei at par value
for no larger sum than J20; that silver
dollars, silver certificates and the Sher
man treasury notes may he exchanged
for bonds bearing 2% per cent, interest,
convertible on demand into notes which
shall be received for custom debts; that
silver bullion now In the treasury shall
be sold within the next live years.
M. Ij. Crawford, of Texas, submitted
a paper conceding that the fate of sil
ver and redemption money was sealed;
that it occupied the same relation to the
commercial world that slavery did to
the civilization of the nineteenth cen
tury.
R. J. Lowry, of Georgia, presented a
scheme prepared by a bank -official of
Atlanta which Included a revival of state
bank* of issue, to be under the control
of the states, while congress should pass
laws which would keep all kinds • of
money on a parity.
W. R. Trigg, of Richmond, Va„ ad
vocated the repeal of the 10 per cent, state
bank tax.
Representative Fowler, of New Jersey,
offered a resolution providing for the
appointment of a committee to co-operate
With the congressional’committees in se
curing financial legislation at the coming
session of congress.
Mr. Sprague, for the Commercial ciub,
of Chicago, presented a declaration that
for tjhe best Interests of the country the
government should go out of the bank
ing business.
The Toledo Produce Exchange sent a.
request declaring At to be the duty of con
gress to provide a safe and ample cur
rency. - eh -:
A HARMONIOUS
Was That of the Board of Police
Commissioners.
MESSERS LANE AND I ^ .SER
— S
The Recently Appointed Commr ers Sub
scribe to the Oath of f <+,
- f
CHAIRMAN STEVENS WA' 2 tE-ELECTED
—~lz
Secretary Garrett Also signation and
Election-A Pine BeinTuved—One Be
quest Disallowed — Chief Mc
Donald’s Annual Report.
The board of police commissioners held
an Important session last night.
The new commissioners, Former Mayor
A. O. Lane, and Mr. E. Leaser, subscribed
to the oath of office. Chairman Stevens
was re-elected. He made an eloquent
speech of thanks, and said regarded
his re-election not only as a compliment,
but as an indorsement. He promised
faithfully to execute the duties of the of
fice and gave the newr members a cordial
welcome. He hoped the spirit of har
mony would prevail and all work for the
interest of Birmingham.
Mr. W. C. Garrett was re-elected secre
tary, and salary (?) the same.
Reports of committees were received.
Messrs. Stevens and Garrett reported
that they had seen the mayor in regard
to paying the force on the 1st and 15th in
stead of once a month. The mayor was
personally in favor of the change and
would lay it before the 'board of mayor
and aldermen. The committee was con
tinued.
The case of Officer McCullom was call
ed. He had been charged with insubor
dination, that isr insinuating that the
board showed favoritism in paying ofl
eers. He had been fined five days, $10.
In view of the fact that Officer Cullom
had a large family and other extenuating
circumstances, the fine was refunded.
Petition from Nathan Byars, patrol
man No. 15, was read. He had shot and
killed 'the little negro girl, Lizzie Durr,
who was stealing coal. The board had
fined him' $60. He had been called be
fore the grand Jury, and no indictment
found, as the shooting was accidental.
He asked that the fine be refunded. Mr.
Lesser moved that petition be not al
lowed,
Mr. Lane said judging from newspaper
reports the shooting was outrageous—
too little regard was shown for human
life and especially for the lives of ne
groes, who were helpless. This shooting,
however, may have been accidental.
Mr. Lesser said that while the negroes
committed 75 per cent of crimes they
ought to be protected against officers.
Mr. Garrett said it was conceded that
t'lie shooting was accidental, but the
officer ought not to have taken out his
arms. Claim unanimously disallowed.
The bill of Robertson & Heflin was re
ferred to Mr. Garrett.
Officer Duncan pleaded guilty of be
ing Intoxicated and tendered his resig
nation, which was accepted. Supernu
merary No. 1 Thompson was elected to
Mr. Duncan’s place, as patrolman No.
31. The election of supernumerary No.
2 then took place, with the following ap
plications: J. W. Kilpatrick, W. H. dar
ner, S. S. Powell, J. B. Fair, C. H. Cole,
Wm. A. Howard, J. D. Bryan, W. R.
O’Rourke. Fred W. Herman. C. W. Low
ery, B. F. Burgin, D. H. Gumming, W.
J. Leach. S. E. Barron, Wm. J. Willis,
J. C. Bartley, J. H. Mingea, A. V. Mc
Alpine, .Tames McICnight.
James McKnight was elected super
numerary No. 2. The vote stood, Mc
Knight 3, Leadh 1, Mingea 1.
The annual report of the chief of po
lice was received and referred to a com
mittee composed of Messrs. Lane and
Garrett. Following is the report:
CHIEF’S REPORT.
Birmingham, Ala., Jan. X, 1897.
To the Honorable Board of Police Com
missioners, Birmingham, Ala
Gentlemen:—I have the honor to sub
mit herewith my second annual report of
the police department, for the year 189C.
together with some suggestions to which
reference at this time may not be deemed
improper.
CONDITION OF FORCE.
It gives me great pleasure to again tes
tify to the increased efficiency of the
force, though hampered by the fact that
It Is not as large as It should be, necessi
tating long, hours of service and large
territory to be covered by individual of
ficers, yet the service and results for the
year past have been gratifying in the ex
treme, and while not believing that we
have yet reached that point where all ef
forts to secure more efficiency, better dis
cipline, greater loyalty and pride in the
service should cease, we can feel justly
proud of the fact that the force today Is
in a better condition than ever before,
and better prepare^ to protect the lives
and properties of our people. For this
condition I want to thank your honorable
body for the Interest you have taken in
the discharge of your duties, and assist
ance lent to effect this end.
DISCIPLINE.
It would be strange, indeed, if in a body
of nearly forty men there should not be
those that err In judgment and fall short
in discretion. The policeman Is human,
with all the attributes and qualities—
good and bad—which belong to the race.
That he should make mistakes Is natural,
but having been selected In view of his
special qualifications for police service,
it is fair to assume that he will, in a
measure ait least, set a wise example^tor
sobriety and straightforwardness. ,'The
policeman’s career Is filled with tempta
tions, and he must bej a strong man to
withstand them all.
The new appointee is usually selected
as the victim. It is a trifling matter, ap
parently, for him to accept a drink, but
from the moment of its acceptance the
alluring hospitality makes him subject to
orders from without instead of within
headquarters.
Intoxication, neglect of duty, Illegal ar
rests, unnecessary violence and kindred
violations on the part of members of the
force should, of course, not be tolerated,
and the citizen that has good ground for
complaint ought to be afforded every
means to secure prompt redress. The
list attached to this report of the number
tried and fined, shows that no Inconsid
erable amount of attention of the mem
bers of the force had been received at the
hands of the board In the past year.
The city has been visited this year by
numerous tramps, but we have continued
the practice of gathering them up and
putting them to work on the streets, and
now the city Is practically free from
annoyance from this source.
OAMEWELL SYSTEM.
We will soon have in operation the
JGtunewell system of police telegraph.
which wan recommended in my last re
port. In a short while the wires and'
boxes will be in place. Tills system'
needs no eulogy from me. but In its op
eration the efficiency of the force will be
increased at once to a degree that will
largely compensate for the lack of num
bers.
ROGUES' GALLERY.
As I stated before we are in great need
of a rogues’ galelry. Numbers of con
victs are released every month from our
penitentiaries who. at one time were our
worst enemies, but who have been away
so long (hat their names arc forgotten
by the older membe rs of the force, which
were never known by the younger mem
bers, return to our city to commence op
erations anew. With this gallery we
could easily call their names to memory
and recollect to a certain extent their
old haunts and practices. By this gal
lery the younger members of the force,
who were not members when these vet
eran thieves operated in our community',
could have them pointed out to them In
the gallery and if they were to see them
they could easily Identify them and bo
on the alert. Besides, we receive pic
tures from other cities of rogues that
visit other cities and bring back their
spoils to be disposed of in thpir commu
"‘‘y- T1ese traveling light-fingered ar
ttstfp could be driven from the city if they
could only be Identified by our men. The
gallery Is a great necessity, and I hope
that your honorable body will use every
exertion to secure it for thv department,
and especially for the public good
behtiulon system.
T*1.® Bertlllon system of measurement
would also be of great benefit to the de
partment. This, with the rogues' gal
lery, would enable us to rank among tine
most successful departments in -the
country There was created last May,
bf nthCTTNot i)1La Chlefs' of Police Union
of the United States and Canada, a board
?L0^,rro«Wh.0. have for thel1' Purpose
the Identification of criminals. This
board will have headquarters in Wash
ington, D. C., and wiil be composed of
men, »■ William A. Pinkerton, de
tecthe of Chicago; Jacob Frey, mar
n»ithei Clty of BaUim>re. and Col.
linil Deitsch, superintendent of police of
the city of Cincinnati. This board will
be called the Central Bureau of Identifi
cation of Criminals.
Bir™!lnB,ha™ shou,d be a member of
this board. To illustrate this fact and
the necessity of it, say. for Instance we
™a Ma" here Who we do not know,
we take his measurement by the Bertil
lon system, forward this with his nie
WaeH? th.e head,|Uarters of t'.ils board, at
»‘nii°n ,a1d ,they P|ace him and
notify me who he is and all about him
This system can be purchased at a very
small cost and would be greatly bene
ficial to the department.
MATRON.
In my last annual report I suggested
Ee,,^1iPnymenlt °/ a I,oll<,e matron. I
thought it a good suggestion, and am
now of the same opinion.
The number of cases of runaway and
deserted girls, who may be on the very
threshold of vice, that are constantly
coming under my observation, impress
me with the fact that a great deal of good
could be accomplished by the employment
of a matron, at a small cost, who could
Investigate such cases and afford relief
to worthy persons by having them turned
over to the proper charities.
POLICE HEADQUARTERS.
When I come to report upon the condi
tion of the building which we are com
pelled to use as headquarters, I cannot
Too strongly deplore'the fact that the city
has for so long a time neglected to erect
a suitable building to b? used for this
purpose. Here where the city’s needs
would suggest that a suitable building
with t'he proper accommodation and
equipments should be had, but we have
instead a tumble-down, dirty, unsafe and
incommodious building, a building which
is scarcely safe for occupancy, the con
tinued use of which may result in in
jury to the city's property therein, and
also to the members of the department
who are stationed there.
I would urge upon your honorable
board the necessity of taking a vigorous
and decided stand In favor of a more
suitable headquarters, and continue in
your demand for this until the city will
recognize this need, and furnish us the
accommodations to which we are enti
tled.
CRIMINALS.
I find by close observation that our city
has, perhaps, more persistent thieves
than any other city In the south. We
have arersted any number of them and
sent them to the mines, and as their
terms expire they again take up this ne
farious business In our city. As you are
well aware, all of these criminals are not
Birmingham’s own production. Birming
ham is the dumping ground for the staita
for criminals. They are sen’ up for short
terms and some’ for long terms from every
city and county in the state. Their terms
must expire sometime, of course, and
they are released and given transporta
tion to their homes; but, instead of going
to their homes, they seem to prefer to
hang out in our city, "just for a few
days,” they say; that means until they
can sell their ticket, which was given
them, and until they can get acquainted
with others of their type who reside here.
They organize and commence on their
exploits of pilfering in a short while.
But I find the most persistent thieves
and law-breakers to be youths and some
times mere children. Our court;! say
they are too young for legal punishment,
and their paren'ts claim they are unable
to control them. This makes it quite a
problem as to what Is best to do with
them. One thing is certain, something
ought to be done; we are practically at
their mercy as R is.
Our men have succeeded in bringing to
Justice some of the worst criminals the
city ever had the misfortune to be
troubled with. They have also recovered
a large amount of stolen property and
returned same to the rightful owners, as
you will notice by the amount of "stolen
property recovered," in value in the with
in report. They have taught the thief
and crook and also the professional
criminal, that this city is no place for
him, and our city has the name and repu
tation of a most successful criminal
catcher. None knows this better than
the criminal himself.
REVISION OF ORDINANCES,
I must again call to your attention,
that we are greatly in need of a complete
revision of the city ordinances.
I thought when we began the year of
1896 that this would be done before I
made this report, but it has been serious
ly neglected. Many ordinances are pass
ed and amended that the new members
of the force never know anything of.
This should not be. It is embarrassing
in the extreme to see officers make cases
against anyone for violations of the or
dinances, and then on the trial of the
case to see the case dismissed because the
ordinances either cannot be found or to
find that the same has been repealed or
amended to that extent to avoid convic
tion. I would urge upon your honorable
board to ask for this, as we are hamper
ed to a certain extent on this account,
PAY.
From a comparison of this department’*
pall roll with that of other cities, it will
be found that the salaries paid here are
lower than In almost any other city in
the country’. If the city is not in a posi
tion to materially stand an increase in
the wages of the men, I would be glad
to see their uniforms furnlBhed them in
addition to the salaries they- noy draw.
(Continued on Eighth Page.)BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 22.
BIBMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1897.
NUMBER 363
IN WHOM RESTSTHE POWER
Senator Bacon, of Georgia, Dis
cusses the Subject.
THE • EXCLUSIVE POWER
Were It Vested in the Chief Magistrate Would
Be Dangerous.
EVEN GREATER THAN A MONARCH'S
Would Bo His Power Were It So—Pacific
i
Railroad Again Brought Up-A Meas
ure of Importance to a Coun
ty of this State.
Washington, Jan. 13.—The senate spent
the first two hours of today’s session be
hind closed doors in the consideration of
executive business (the extradition trea
ties with Argentine and the Orange Re
public) and the remainder of the day was
occupied in the delivery of a Epeech by
Mr. Bacon, democrat, of Georgia, on the
question whether the recognition of a
new power was an executive or a legisla
tive act. His contention was that it was
a legislative function, one exclusively for
determination by congress. Even where
the recognition was by the president, its
validity, Mr. Bacon argued, was derived
from the assent of congress, either direct
or implied. If the president had such ex
clusive power it was greater than any
which any constitutional monarch
■wielded. *
Never, Mr. Bacon said, was challenge
of power more sharply made than that by
the secretary of state in the matter, and
never was defiance of authority more
boldly given.
Mr. Bacon confined himself to the con
stitutional and legal points In the argu
ment, refraining from every allusion to
the practical question of recognizing the
republic of Cuba.
Mr. Bacon Introduced his subject by re
marking that in December last he had in
troduced a concurrent resolution which
had been referred to the judiciary com
mittee, declaring that the question of the
recognition by this government of any
people as a free and independent nation
Is one exclusively for the determination
of congress. As he could not call up his
own resolution he would make Mr. Mills'
resolution the text of his remarks.
It was undeniable, he said, that all leg
islative power was vested by the consti
tution in congress, except as modified by
the president's right of veto, and, there
fore, the test of whether the recognition
of a government belonged to the execu
tive or to congrss was “would such recog
nition make that law which was not law
before.” If It did, then the power lay
in congress and not in the executive. He
argued that the recognition of a new
power did create a new legal status, and
was therefore exclusively within the pro
vince of the law-making power.
When the act of recognition was by the
president, it derived its validity from the
assent of congress, either direct or Im
plied. His proposition was: That the
ultimate power to determine whether a
nation should or should not be recognized
was in the law-maklpg branch of the
government, and that when that branch.
In full knowledge of what Is going on per
mits the executive to act in the matter, it
Is a confirmation of the president's act.
Mr. White, democrat, of California, put
the case of the recognition by the presi
dent of a minister representing a new
government and aadced Mr. Bacon
whether that recogniton was final and
bound congress and the country.
Mr Bacon gave a ueciueuiy negative
response, and when Mr. Hale, republican,
of Maine, followed up Mr. White’s ques
tinn by asking whether congress might
order such minister to he sent home, Mr.
Bacon’s response in the affirmative was
equally positive. ....... ..
Mr Bacon went on to argue that if the
president had the sole and exclusive
power of recognizing or refusing to rec
ognize a new government, no monarch
ever wielded a more absolute power, and
there was not on earth today a constitu
tional monarch that wielded such pow
er It was safer, he argued, that the de
termination of such a question should
not be within the control of one man.
but should be under the control of the
law-making power.
"The secretary of state, Mr. Bacon
continued, "has denied the power of con
gress, has defied its authority and has
proclaimed through the press to foreign
nations that even if such proposed ac
tion shall he placed on the statute book
In due form of law, the president will not
obey it. He has practically threatened
congress with the veto of the president,
and has added that if passed over the
veto it will be thrown hack in the face
of congress as so much waste paper.
Never was challenge of power more
sharply made. Never was defiance of
authority more boldly given."
Mr. Bacon spoke for nearly three hours,
most of his speech being delivered from
manuscript. The Mills resolution re
mains on the table.
Mr. Gear, (rep. of Iowa), chairman of
the Pacific railroad committee, intro
duced a bill which was referred to that
committee appointing the secretary of
the treasury, the secretary of the interi
or and the attorney general a commis
sion to settle the indebtedness of the
bond-aided Pacific railroads to the gov
ernment.
The senate then, at 5:10 p. m., adjourn
ed until tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Washington, Jan. 13.—The house spent
today in the work on the calendar and
passed a number of minor bills by unani
mous consent. The bill providing that
oleomargarine and other imitation dairy
products shell be subject to the laws of
the states or territories into which they
are transported, was sprung unexpected
ly. Strong opposition developed at once,
with the result that after a long wrangle
a demand for the previous question on
the passage of the bill was voted down
by a narrow majority.
On motion of Mr. Washington, (dem.
of Tennessee), senate joint resolution
was passed providing for expediting the
erection of the government building at
the Tennessee centennial exposition.
Among tlie bills passed were house bill
detaching Marlon county, Alabama, from
the northern, r’.nd attaching it to the
southern judicial district of that state;
also senate bill withdrawing from the su
preme court of the United States Juris
diction of criminal cases not capital. It
confers jurisdiction In cases of this char
acter upon the circuit court of appeals.
At 4:45 p. m. the house adjourned until
tomorrow.
Agricultural appropriations.
Presented to the House—Money Pro
vided for Distribution of Beads.
.Washington, Jan. 13.—The agricultural
appropriation bill was presented to the
house today by M. B. Wadsworth, chair
man of the committee on agriculture. It
carries an appropriation of $3,152,752, an
Increase of $102,080 over the amount ap
propriated for the current fiscal year.
The only material Increase Is under the
head of the bureau of animal Industry
and is intended to allow the extension of
meat Inspection. The committee dis
cussed the matter of "compulsory meat
Inspection," but decided to make it the
subject of an independent bill ant} not to
place It In the appropriation bill.
For the purchase and distribution of
valuable seeds, an appropriation of $120,
000 is made and the secretary is directed;
to expend the appropriation.
Secretary Afbrton made no estimate for
this expenditure, and, as In former bills,
It was Inserted without his sanction.
--o
CONTESTED ELECTION.
The Watson-Black Case Wrill Come Be
fore the Committee Tomorrow.
Washington, Jan. 13.—Elections com
mittee No. 1, which has jurisdiction of
the contested election cases of Watson
vs. Black, from the Tenth Georgia dis
trict, will meet on Friday next to discuss
the ttstlmony submitted and endeavor. If
possible, to reach a conclusion respecting
merits. It is not likely that a definite
decision will be reached at this meeting
in view of the wide diversity of opinion
among the members.
It Is possible that several meetings may
be called before the majority of the com
mittee agree upon a report.
-o
WHOLESALE REDUCTION.
Of Expenses In the Customs Office at
New York—War Claims Ordered Paid.
Washington, Jan. 13.—A reduction of
$127,000 per annum has been ordered In
the expenses of the office of the collector
of customs at New York. The reduction
Is to take place from Feb. 1.
The reductions ordered will include the
discontinuance of the services of twenty
five inspectors, including twelve exist
ing vacancies; six night Inspectors (in
cluding two existing vacancies); one
weigher, ten assistant weighers (Includ
ing four existing vacancies); seven assist
ant weighers and a reduction in the force
of temporary weigh.ers and laborers.
A bill carrying an appropriation of
$768,381, representing 428 claims for stores
and supplies taken in the south by fed
eral troops during the late war, which
claims have been adjudicated by the
court of claims under the provisions of the
Bowman act, was today favorably report
ed to the senate by the committee on
claims. This bill was incorporated by
the senate as an amendment, in the sun
dry civil bill of the last session of con
gress, but was disagreed to by the house
and stricken out In conference.
REFUSED TOE AMENDMENT.
Asked for by Secretary Olney In the Ex
tradition Treaty—Francis On the Hook.
Washington, Jan. 13.—The senate de
voted two hours this afternoon to the
consideration In executive session of the
request of Secretary Olney for an amend
ment to the extradition treaties with the
Orange Free State and' the Argentine Re
public, ratified Monday, by the insertion
of a clause requiring each government
to give up Its own citizens by extradition
demanded by the other government a
party to the treaty. This language ap
pears in none of our treaties, and was
so out of the order of things that It pre
cipitated a long debate, participated In
by Senators Morgan, Sherman, Chandler,
Hoar and others. These senators took
the position that each government was
the judge of its own rights in such cases.
Senator Davis also spoke at some length
in opposition to the request of the sec
retary. It was shown that this country
had never given up its own citizens, and
the senate held that the language asked
for was unnecessary. At the conclusion
of the debate no formal action was taken,
but it was-evident that the senate sjhould
decline to make the amendment asked for
and the treaties will stand as ratified
Monday last.
A resolution was adopted removing the
Injunction of secrecy from the general
treaty of arbitration between this coun
try and Great Britain.
The nomination of David R. Francis, of
Missouri, to be secretary of the interior,
was called up in executive session, and
after a short speech by 'Mr. Vest the case
went over without action.
REFUSED CLEARANCE
To the Dauntless and She is Still in Port
—After Filibusters at Key West.
Jacksonville, Jan. 13.—Collector of Cus
toms G. R. Blsbee has received instruc
tions from Washington to refuse clear
ance to the steamer Dauntless, the mas
ter of which has applied for a clear
ance for Nuevitas, Cuba, with a cargo of
arms and ammunition for the Cubans.
The order of the collector Is based upon
the report of the last voyage of the
Dauntless, as made by Captain John W.
Myers. The report is very unsatisfacto
ry, as It does not state the name of the
vessel to which the men and arms taken
from No Name key were transferred at
Be,The Dauntless is still in the custody of
an officer of the revenue cutter Boutwell,
but has not yet been libeled for any vio
lation of the neutrality or navigation
laws of the United States. The steamer
Three Friends Is still in custody of the
United States marshal, and her owners
have not yet applied for her release on
bond. Judge Locke’s decision on a form
er libel is anxiously looked for.
The following from Key West shows
that the grand jury is trying to get at
thi bottom of the alleged filibustering
trips of the Three Friends and other
steamers supposed to be engaged in the
business.
"Papers were served Dy ueputy Mar
shal Johnson upon Captain Horr, ex-col
lector of this port, and Peter Williams,
ex-Unlted States marshal, to appear be
fore Judge Locke at Jacksonville instan
ter, charged wlt'h Implication in the fili
bustering expedition which was landed
in Cuba by the steamer Dauntless on
the last trip. They are charged with
taking arms and munitions of war from
No Name key in the tug Arab and trans
ferring the same to the Dauntless."
A LEGAL HANGING.
Ocala, Fla., Jan. 13.—William Lattlmer
was hanged here today for the murder
of Pullman Car Porter Greenlee on Au
gust 6 last. He died game. Lattlmer was
a n*gro about 23 years old, and a native
of Sparta, Ga., where his mother still
lives. He came to Florida last year and
attempted to rob. sleeping passengers In
a Pullman car at this place. He was
detected by Porter Greenlee and a fight
ensued, in which Lattlmer shot Greenlee
three times, causing instant death.
A SCHEDULE OF HIS DEBTS.
Boston, Jan. 13.—Dr. Richard C. Flow
er, Insolvent debtor, filed a schedule of
his creditors and of his property in t'he
Suffolk insolvency office today. His
liabilities aggregate *273,000, of which ap
proximately *173,009 are undisputed and
*100,000 are disputed. His assets consist
of real estate and a large number of
shares of various stocks and bonds of
uncertain value.
THE MONETARY CONFERENCE
Adopts a Declaration of Needed
Legislation
AND THEN ADJOURNED
Committee on Resolutions Presents a Lengthy
and Unanimous Report.
A GRADUAL AND STEADY PROCESS
Required to Retire All the United States
Notes—Suggestions Looking Toward
Placing Funds in Available Po
sition—Other Business.
Indianapolis, Ind., Jan. 13.—The na
tional monetary Convention which has
been in session here two days, this after
noon adopted, a declaration of what leg
islations, in its opinion, is needed upon
the subject by a praettcally unanimous
vote. This declaration Included a de
mand for the piaintenance of the gold
standard and the retirement of the de
mand obligations of the government.
Accompanying this was a proposition
for the appointment of a commission to
investigate and report by bill or other
wise upon the evils and remedies of the
currency system. This was t'he unani
mous conclusion of the committee on
resolutions, a result that was expected
by the delegates, and the recommenda
tions of the committee were affirmed by
the unanimous vote of the convention.
This was not secured, however, without
much opposition, and an exceedingly ani
mated debate, with short controversies
between Congressman Fowler, of New
Jersey, and State Assemblyman Roots,
of Indiana, and Congressman Walker, of
Massachusetts, and John H. Rhoades, of
New York.
The fea ture of the morning session was
a speech by, Congressman Fowler, in
which he outlined the cause of the pres
ent financial ills and the remedy there
for. All of the . time, of the convention
up to the presentation of the report of
the committee on resolutions was occu
pied in listening to speeches and recom
mendations of features which those pre
senting them wished to have embodied
in the declarations of the convention.
The convention had taken recesatwice
upon notice that the committee wfe not
ready to report. When it reassembled
after the second recess at 4:30 p. m., H. H.
Hanna, chairman of the committee on
resolutions, presented the report of his
committee and called upon M. E. Ingalls,
of Cincinnati, to read it.
The report, Mr. Hanna said, to the sur
prise of the great body of delegates, was
the unanimous expression of the commit
tee. He asked like unanimous support
from the convention and moved the adop
tion of the report. The report was as fol
lows:
Gentlemen of the Monetary' Conference:
Your committee make the following re
port:
This conference declares that it has be
come absolutely necessary that a con
sistent, straightforward and deliberately
planned monetary system shall be inau
gurated, the fundamental basis of which
should be:
*'irst—mat cne present guru aianuaru
should be maintained.
Second—That step3 should be taken to
Insure the ultimate retirement of all
classes of United States notes by a grad
ual and steady process, so os to avoid In
jurious contraction of the currency or
disturbance of the business Interests of
the country, and that In such retirement
provision should be made for a separa
tion of the revenue and note Issue de
partments of the treasury.
Third—That a banking system be pro
vided which should furnish credit facili
ties to every portion of the country and
a safe and elastic circulation, and espec
ially with a view to securing such a dis
tribution of the loanable capital of the
country as will tend to equalize the rates
of interest in all parts thereof for the
purpose of effectively promoting the
above objects,
Resolved, That fifteen members of this
conference be appointed by the chair
man to act as an executive committee,
while this convention Is not In session,
-with full power of this convention. The
executive committee will have the power
to increase the membership to any num
ber not exceeding forty-rfiveand five mem
bers thereof shall at all times constitute
a quorum of said committee. The ex
ecutive committee Shall have special
charge of the solicitation, receipt and dis
bursement of contributions made for all
purposes; shall have power to call this
convention together again when, and
where it may seem best to said commit
tee to do so, and said committee shall
continue In office, with power to fill va
cancies until discharged at a future meet
ing of this convention.
Resolved, That it shall be the duty of
this executive committee to endeavor to
procure at the special session of congress,
which it is understood will be called in
’ Match next, legislation calling for the
appointment of a monetary commlsison
by the President to consider the entire
question, and to report to congress at tne
earliest day possible, or, falling to secure
the above legislation;,-they are hereby au
thorized and empowered to select a com
mission of eleven tnembets according to
rules and plans set forth In the sugges
tions submitted to the convention by Mr.
Hanna, of Indianapolis, as follows:
Article i*-The committee shall consist
of eleven members to be named by the
executive committee appointed by this
convention. The. executive committee
shall have powCr to fill vacancies In the
commission as they may occur.
Art. 2—The first meeting of the commis
sion shall be held at a time and place
to be designated by ThS executive com
mittee of this convention In a call to be
issued therefor and at such meeting the
committee' shall organize by the elec
tion of such officers and. the addition of
such rules and by-laws for Its own gov
ernment, as may bea*te«Tto by a ma
jority of its members, ana thereafter It
shall be gpverned by su.ch rules and by--:,
laws subject-to these articles.
Art. 3—All ruleB and by-laws of the
commission and all its proceedings shall
be directed towards the accomplishment
of the objects of its creation, which is to
make a thorpuzlj, tnvepl|0ftqon of the
monetary_alta|fa#itdji»£gd» of this coun
try and all Delations andiaepects, and to
make appropriate suggestions as to any
evils found, to exist aH4 the remedies
therefor and no limit Is placed upon the
scope of such,inqulry*or the manner of
conducting '."tits same, excepting only
that the expenses thereof shall not exceed
the sums set apart for such purposes by
the executive committee."
Art. 4—The executive committee of
this committee shall use ait much of the
voluntary 'onttibutiaas etude to It as
i may be av^MSWe far (^t^urpose to de
fray all necessary expenses of the com
mission and shall notify the commission
from time to time of the amount so avail
able, In order that it may regulate its
expenditures accordingly and no liabil
ity shall attach to said commission or
to this convention beyond the amount so
notified.
Art. 5—When the labors of this commis
sion have been completed as far as prac
ticable, the executive committee, if it
deems It advisable, shall issue a call to
bring this convention together again at
a time and place designated in such call;
and at the meeting so convened the com
mittee shall make a report of its doings
and suggestions in such manner and form
as It shall deem best adapted to present
the same to this convention and its mem
bers for action; and if legislation is
deemed advisable, shall accompany such
report with a draft of such bill or bills
providing for such legislation.
Resolved, That all resolutions and com
munications as to methods of currency
reform which have been presented to this
convention be referred to such commit
tee when formed.
The report and resolutions were agreed
to with but two or three negative votes.
The convention, after votes of thanks
to various organizations and persons, ad
journed .subject to the call of the execu
tive committee.
Chairman Patterson stated that after
a conference with Mr. Hanna, he would
announce the names of the committee
provided for in the resolutions adopted.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, La.. Jan. 13.—Favorable
weather, warm and mild, drew out a
larger crowd today. A dead-heat and a
run-off prolonged the sport to a late hour.
Only two post favorites won, and the
public lost on the day.
First Race—Selling-, three-quarters of a
mile. Alamo, 108 (Gatewood), 6 to 5, won;
Katherine second, Sim W. third. Time,
1:16H.
second Kace—t or maidens, seven, fur
longs. Sir Fred, 105 (C. Relff), even, ran
a dead-heat with Heritage, 104 (Scherrer),
6 to 1, eight lengths In front of Virgie 8.,
100 (Snell). 30 to 1, third. Time, 1:29%.
Run-off—Sir Fred, 9 to 10, won; Herit
age, second. Time. 1:32.
Third Race—Selling, seven furlongs.
Necedah, 103 (C. Reiff), 4 to 1, won; Count
ess Irma second, R. Q. Ban third. Time,
1:29%.
Fourth Race—Handicap, a mile and a
sixteenth. Viscount, 90 (T. Burns), 10 to
1, won; Booze second, Cotton King third.
Time, 1:49%.
Fifth Race—Selling, six furlongs. D. L.,
91 (T. Burns), 7 to 2, won; Galley West
second, Harry B. third. Time, 1:16.
Sixth Race—Selling, three-quarters of a
mile. Kruna, 86 (Songer), 6 to 5, won;
Little Matt second, Judge Bullock third.
Time, 1:16%.
TODAY’S ENTRIES.
New Orleans, Jan. 13.—(Entries for to
morrow’s races:
First Race—Seven-eighths of a mile,
purse. Clsmonda, 95; Paskola, Hano Belle,
97; Sauterne, 99; Judge Bullock, 100; Tril
by, Belle of Fordham, 102; Pete Kitchen,
Hardenburg, 104.
Second Race—One mile, selling. Lona
lla, 92; Gomez, 94; Pop Dixon, Olivia L.,
Miss Miles, Broscla, Squire Glllam, 97;
Jack Hayee, 99; Candy, 102; Sugar Cane,
104; Sharon, Harry S., Elyria, 107.
Third Race—iMlle and one-sixteenth,
selling. Martha Smith, Helen H. II., Lit
tle Frank, Mamie G., 92; Dorothy III.,
Old Pugh, 94; Elano, Loudon, Billy Mc
Klnzle, 99; Faslg, 100; Ida Pickwick, 105.
Fourth Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
handicap. Gaston, Glen Albyn, Lady Brlt
annica, 94; Emily Henderson, 98; Cannon
ade, 109; John Oarr, 110; Alvin W., 114.
Fifth Race—Seven-eighths of a mile,
selling. C. C. Rumrlll, 97; Soubriquet,
Stark, 100; Nover, 102; Grade C., Buck
more, 106; Jamboree, 107; Lord Nelson,
108.
Sixth Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
.selling. Gladioli, 90; Pisa, 93; Victoress,
95; Ruth V., 98; Marquise, Ben Wilson,
100; Text, 103; Maggie S., 104; Montell, 105;
Dorah Wood, 107.
STATE HERALD'TIPS.
First Race—GISMONDA, TRILBY,
SAUTERNE.
Second Race—OLIVIA L„ SHARON,
ELYRLA
Third Race—LOUDON. MAMIE G.,
IDA PICKWICK.
Fourth Race—LADY BRITTANIC,
ANGER, JOHN CARR.
Fifth Race—LORD NELSON, G RAC IE
C., BUCKMORE.
Sixth Race—MAGGIE S., DORAH
WOO'D, MARQUISE.
INGLESIDE RESULTS.
Oakland, Cal., Jan. 13.—Weather cool,
track fast. Three favorites won.
First Race—One mile, selling. Petrarch,
107 (Thorpe), 15 to 5, won; Unity second,
Bill McCloskey third. Time, 1:43.
Second Race—Five furlongs, selling.
Applause, 110 (Coady), 4 to 5, won; Fly
second, San Marco third. Time, 1:14%.
Third Race—Mile and a sixteenth, sell
ing. Rey Del Bandldos, 102 (H. Martin),
9 to 5, won; Stler Joe second, Monica
third. Time, 1;48.
Fourth Race—The Nagle selling stakes,
seven furlongs. Sweet Favordale, 100
(Jones), 5 to 1, won; Preston second,
Chartreuse third. Time, 1:27.
Fifth Race—iMile and a quarter, hurdle.
Three Forks, 157 (Peters), 8 to 6, won;
Imp. Autonomy second, J. O. C. third.
Time, 2:18%. _ . ,
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Candelaria,
115 (Thorpe), 1 to 2, won; Personne sec
ond, BernardlllO third. Time, 1:15.
IN FAVOR OF SWEAT
Was the Testimony of Mrs. Crosby—
Judge Reese to Come Next.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 13.—The evidence to
day In the investigation of Judge Sweat’s
official conduct was more favorable to
him. Mrs. Crosby testified that her re
lations with the Judge had been perfect
ly proper. She denied that she was evre
In his room at the hotel at Indian Springs.
He did accompany her once, she said,
showing her over the house and while
she waited in the hall he stepped Into his
(room to get an umbrella. It was shown
by other witnesses that the trial of this
woman's husband, who was charged
wtjh murder, was impartial. He was
released on bond by Judge Sweat, but
this appears to have been done in a per
fectly legal way and was a year before
the Judge and Mrs. Crosby met at the
summer resort.
The investigation of Judge Sweat will
be concluded and then the charge against
Judge Seaborn Reese will be taken up.
I THREE HEAVY JUDGMENTS.
|4ew York, Jan. 13.—Henry Rogers, im
porter of fancy goods, at No. 558 Broad
way, allowed three Judgments to be taken
against him today, aggregating $27,154.
His liabilities are not definitely known,
but are currently reported to be from
$80,000 to $100,000, a large part of which
is due in Europe.
GRANNAN CAN’T PLUNGE.
New York, Jan. 13.—Riley Grannan, the
plunger, haB failed in his application to
make permanent Vs Injunction restrain
ing the Jockey club from ruling Mm off
tbe turf. Justice Osborne, in Brooklyn,
decided In favor of the Jockey club to
day. . . _ . i
THE MONTGOMERY INJURED
Struck a Hidden Obstruction Off
Governor’s Island.
ion
PLATES BADLY INJURED
-T
And Propeller Blades W\y W Anlnvestigati
to Be c
AWFUL FATE £ FOUR MINERS
/ —
Box of Oiant F ^ ar Explodes, Scattering
Their Hem ,n Fragments- Fright
ful Fall of Five Men to the
Bottom of a Shaft.
New York, Jan. 13.—The United States
cruiser Montgomery met with an acci
dent yesterday morning while rounding
Governor's Island, sustaining damage to
three port side plates and.to a blade of
her propeller. The cruiser was on her
way to Hampton Roads to join the North
Atlantic squadron with Captain Brad
ford, a thoroughly experienced navigator,
in command. .The cruiser was proceed
ing at a fair speed when a sudden shock
startled those aboard. Two more violent
bumps Immediately followed, und the
alarm was at once sounded. Every man
sprang to his post, the water-tight doors
between compartments were closed and
the engines stopped. Men sent b?low
soon reported that the ship was not leak
Sng.
Captain Bradford says he cannot imag
ine what the vessel struck. He says the
ship was a safe distance from the Gov
ernor’s Island shore and sailing to the
westward on a line with Castle William
and the barge office at the battery. The
officers, assured that all was right, pro
ceeded to Tompkinsville, where the ves
sel anchored for the night. Commodore
Slcard of the Brooklyn navy yard, was
notified. Investigation of the ship’s bot
tom by a diver showed that the plates
over the port forward fire room, the mid
dle fire room and the port engine room,
were dented fully a quarter of an inch.
One of the propeller blades was bent, one
nicked and in the engine room the ce
ment under the engine was badly
cracked. The Governor’s Island shore is
noted for its rocks and it is thought that
one of the big boulders, so numerous
there, may have become washed out to
the channel. Several of the navy yard
officials, however, expressed the opinion
that the Montgomery perhaps hit an old
submerged wreck. Soundings made to
day in the viclnty of the accident showed
no depth less than eight fathoms.
The Montgomery was ordered to return
to the navy yard by Commandant Slck
ard, and she put In an appearance there
early this morning. She will be docked
tomorrow. It is expected that her de
parture for the south will be delayed un
til next week. An investigation of the
accident will probably be ordered.
BLOWN INTO ATOMS.
Frightful Accident Caused by the Drop
ping of a Box of Giant Powder.
St. Louis, Jan. 13.—A special from Boul
der, Colorado, rays that four were blown
to pieces yesterday afternoon at Ward,
a small mining camp situated in the
mountains twenty miles from Boulder.
THE KILLED.
JOHN GLOVER.
DAN SCHREIBER.
T. A. DE GORMOR.
HENRY GLOVER.
They were employed by the Adit Min
ing company and death was due to the
accidental discharge of thirty-five pounds
of powder.
Between 2 and 3 o'clock yesterday af
ternoon when the men had finished drill
ing a sound of holes, they came out, and
taking a box of giant powder, proceeded
to load the holes. They carried the pow
der In an ore car to the place of oper
ation, some 900 feet from the mouth of the
tunnel. Five minutes after starting the
car Manager Daniels was startled by a
terrific explosion. Men entered the tun
nel and fifty feet from the breast of it
they found a complete wreck, with re
mains of timber, iron work and bunches
of human flesh. As the exploring party
proceeded the horrible fate of the ab
sentees was made apparent. Amid the
pile of rock and timbers were the several
remains In a mass, unrecognizable and
Impossible to join together. The only
conclusion is that when the men reached
the breast of the tunnel, one of them, in
lifting the powder box from the car, must
have let it slip from his grasp.
-o
CONFESSED A CRIME
For Which Fear of Mob Violence
Prompted Calling Out of Troops.
Frankfort. Ky., Jan. 13.—Charles Tay
lor, a negro giant, confessed yesterday
afternoon to having robbed, outraged
and murdered Nellie Shipp, colored, aged
14. For fear of mob violence on the part
of negroes the prisoner was ordered re
moved to Lexington by Judge Williams,
but Circuit Judge Cantrell, whose court
was In session, hearing of the move, com
manded that the negro be returned to
the Jail and ordered the mayor and
sheriff to protect him. Late last night
Governor Bradley took a hand In the af
fair and ordered the local militia on duty
with Instructions to shoot If a mob ap
peared, none showing up, however.
FINANCIAL TROUBLES THE CAUSE.
Asheville, N. C., Jan. 13.—E. T. Holmes,
a prominent citizen of South Carolina,
shot himself this afternoon with, a pistol
behind the right ear with lntent'to com
mit suicide. He Is still living, but it Is
thought he will die before morning. He
was secretary and treasurer of the Ashe
ville club and treasurer of about oil the
benefit orders of the city. Financial
trouble Is assigned as the cause.
RAILROAD CHANGES HANDS.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 13.—A special from
Rome to the Constitution says that Si
mon Borg & Co., of New York today
bought the Chattanooga, Rome and Car
rollton railroad at foreclosure sale. The
property Is to be reorganized by the pur
chasing bondholders. The line Is 150 miles
long.
AN EDITOR IN TROUBLE.
Washington, Jan. 13.—The postofllce
department yesterday received a copy of
the Bristol Courier, of Bristol, Tenn.,
containing a scurrilous editorial signed
by the editor of the paper, Charles 8.
Slack, in which he attacks James Long
street Faulkner, editor of the Christian.
The contents of the editorial are such
that lts circulation through the mails
constitutes a violation of the postal laws
and the paper was today forwarded to a
postoftiee Inspector to be submitted by
■him to the United States district attor
ney of eastern Tennessee looking to the
prosecution of the offender.
SHERMAN WILL ACCEPT.
The Folio of Secretary of State In Maj.
(McKinley’s Cabinet.
Canton, O., Jan. 13.—A message re
ceived here from Washington tonight
makes It reasonably certain that Senator
Sherman’s present Intention Is to accept
the position of secretary of state in Maj.
McKinley's cabinet. It was Intimated to
Senator Sherman several days ago that
Maj. McKinley would be glad to know
whether he would be Inclined to accept
a cabinet position. Senator Sherman's
inclinations were not In that direction
originally, and hls first thought was, ac
cording to hls friends here, that he ought
to remain In the senate, but after care
ful consideration of the subject It seems
to him that he can perhaps be of more
service to the country and to hls party
at the head of the department of state.
If present arrangements are not changed,
and there is nothing to Indicate they will
be, Senator Sherman will occupy the
leading place In Maj. McKinley’s cab
inet.
CHEATED THE GROOM.
A Student Makes a Grand Play for a
Bride, and It Worked Admirably.
Jackson, Miss., Jan. 13.—A special from
Yazoo City to the Clarion Ledger says
Miss Vaughn, of Greenwood, and Mr.
Russell, of Helendale, were to have been
married today, 150 Invitations having
been sent out, one of which reached Mr.
Berry, a former sweetheart, at the Agri
cultural and Mechanical college. He
threw aside hls books and took the first
train to Greenwood, repairing to the
house of the young lady. She agreed to
marry him, and he got the preacher at
once. The happy couple then went for
their future home at Yazoo City, leaving
Russell dazed. The parties all stand
high socially.
SNOW AND RAIN
Visits the Middle Northwest—Way Be
low Zero In New York State—
St. Lawrence Solid.
Chicago, Jan. 13.—Reports received
from points in the west indicate that a
heavy snowstorm prevails, though the
wind has been moderate and the weather
intensely cold. Snow and rain fell in
Kansas last night nad heavy snow be
gan in Colorado and Wyoming. Snow
fell in South Dakota, and in Minnesota
flakes are falling south of the central
portion of the state and in Wisconsin and)
Michigan al6o.
The snowfall was heavy in the Mis
souri Valley, andi came eastward with
great rapidity. At Carlyle, 111., six inch
es had fallen before midnight. St. Paul
and Minneapolis, Sioux City, Omaha, St.
Joe and St. Louis were all in the path oil
the storm last night, and either snow or
rain fell heavily in each place before
morning.
At Duluth the winds were high and
Lake Superior was unsafe. Throughout
Nebraska and portions of Montana it
was snowing all day yesterday, andi
drifts have formed in railroad cuts. Thet
snow, however, is light and fine, and'
drifts are therefore not serious. On the
range cattle can easily get to the grass
under the snow. Reports, however, indi
cate that a heavy fall in temperature
is probable and' this will put a new and'
serious phase on the situation. Nebras
ka grain men are Jubilant over the
weather, as they say t'here never was so
much moisture in the state in this
season as at present. Throughout Iowa
heavy snows are also reported with some|
delay in railroad traffic.
WAY BELOW ZERO.
Saratoga, N. Y., Jan. 13.—The ther
mometer registered the lowest tempera
ture thus far this season in many places
throughout this section last night. At
Blue mountain the thermometer indicat
ed 20 degrees below zero; at Marion Riv
er, 23 below; at Schroon Lake, 20, and
at Warrensburg 12. At this point the
lowest temperature indicated was 10 de
grees below.
ST. LAWRENCE FROZEN OVER.
Ogdensburg, N. Y., Jan. 13.—The ther
mometer registered 16 degrees below zenj
this morning. The St. Lawrence is froz
en over.
' TWENTY-EIGHT BELOW.
Saranac Lake, N. Y., Jan. IS.—The mer
cury dropped to 28 degrees lx-low zero
here last night, the lowest point touched
here this season.
DUBOIS IS BEATEN.
The Idaho Plum Looks Certain Now For
Claggett.
Boise, Idaho, Jan. 13.—The joint ballot
taken In the Idaho legislature today re
sulted: Claggett, populist, 34; Dubois,
silver republican, 3; Jones, democrat, 14;
Nelson, populist, 8; Johnson, democrat,
9; scattering, 7. Necessary to a choice,
36.
The Claggett men wanted to take an
other ballot right away but (ailed to
carry their point. Most o( the twenty
five silver republicans who voted for Du
bois on the first ballot taken yesterday
divided their votes between the two dem
ocrats. today. It is believed tonight that
Dubois is beaten and the Claggett men
are jubilant. •
WHO MUST PAY THE FINES.
Paris, Jan. 13.—The inquiry into the
question of the responsibility of the
Panama canal culprits for the fines im
posed upon them was closed today. The
tribunal decided that Ex-Minister Bat
haut, Charles de -Lesseps and Blondin,
were responsible for the fine of 891,000
francs Imposed upon Baihaut in addition
to a term of Imprisonment for connec
tion with the Panama scandal. Baihaut
was released from prison a few months
ago, but on December 11 was re-arrested
In order that he might serve two years
additional imprisonment for failure to
pay the fine. He is now in prison, where
he will remain and if they return to
France, Blondin and de Lesseps will be
put in jail.
HEAVY LIABILITIES.
New York, Jan. 13.—Keller, Ettlnger
and Fink, wholesale dealers in jewelry,
watches and diamonds at No. 24 John
street, suspended today because. It Is
said, of heavy losses In outstanding ac
counts, poor business, continued large
business expenses and small profits. The
liabilities are about $16,000.
FOR SAFE KEEPING.
Bowling Green, Ky., Jan. 13.—Harvey
Allison, charged with the murder of Will
Draper, at Adairsville, has been removed
from Russellville jail to this city, the
officers fearing that the mob which
lynched the Proctors would return and
hang Allison. ' .. .... 1BIRMINGHAM
VOLUME 22.
' -BIRMINGHAM, ALA,
STATE HERALD.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 189 7.
NUMBER 364
NEW PHASE OF THE PROBLEM
Senator Morgan Wants the Union
Pacific Confiscated.
AFTER A LONG STRUGGLE
- - - #
The Free Hoffresfead on PubIk Lands Question
Is Finally Settled.
THE ^NICARAGUA CANAL COMPANY
Attain Fails to Obtain Recognition in the
Senate—Congressmen Loaded With
Bills—Local Legislation on Oleo
margarine Passed the House
Washington, Jan. 14.^A new phase of
the Pacific Allroad problem was pre
sented In the senate today in the form of
a resolution offered by Mr. Morgan, In
structing the Judiciary committee to In
quire whether by the very fact that cer
tain of the bonds of the Union and Cen
tral Pacific Railroad companies had fall
en due and were not paid, the property of
those companies had not become and was
not now the property of the United
States. The resolution went over with
out action.
The house bill for free nomesteaag on
the public lands In Oklahoma territory,
which has been the “unfinished business”
in the senate since the first week of the
present session, came to a vote today,
after a three hours’ debate, and was
passed—yeas 95, nays 11. It was first
amended in a very Important particular
by sti iking out the words “In the ter
ritory of Oklahoma,” thus makipg It ap
ply to_all public lands acquired from the
various Indian tribes. It provides that
all settlers on those lands shall be en
titled to patents on payment of the full
and customary fees and that no further
charge of any kind shall be required.
It also 'provides, by another senate
amendment, that all sums of money so
released, which, if not released, would
belong to the Indian tribe, shall be paid
to such tribe by t)he United States. The
bill now goes back to the house for ac
tion on the senate amendments.*
The army appropriation bill was re
ported back from the committee on ap
propriations, and was placed on the cal
endar.
The printing of 3,000 extra copies of the
Anglo-American arbitration treaty and
of 2,000 extra copies of the memorandum
- recently presented by Mr. Hale (rep. Me.)
as to the right of recognizing foreign gov
ernments, was ordered.
Senate bill for an examination of the
Improvements at the Pass of Aransas,
Texas, was taken from the calendar and
passed.
Mr. Morgan moved to proceed to the
consideration of senate bill to amend the
act to Incorporate the Maritime Canal
company of Nicaragua. The vote was:
Yeas, 33; nays, 6—no quorum.
The negative votes were cast by Messrs.
Berry, Blackburn, Chilton, Cockerell,
Gray and Teller.
Mr. iMorgan moved a call of the senate,
but Mr. Hill remarked that it was too
late to attempt to get a quroum and he
moved an adjournment. The motion was
agreed to, and the senate, at 4:30 p. m.,
adjourned until Monday next.
IN THE HOUSE.
Washington, Jan. 14.—When the house
met this morning many members were
waiting Impatiently in their seats for
business to begin. Each had a printed
copy of some bill in his Jiand, eagerly
hoping to get it through uader the unani
mous consent rule. When the Journal
had been read a score of members were
on t'heir feet crying for recognition and
business went along merrily for awhile.
A number of private pension and other
minor bills were passed.
Mr. Fitzgerald, democrat, of Massa
chusetts secured the passage of a resolu
tion calling on the secretary of the navy1
for an estimate on the cost of putting the
frigate Constitution in condition to make
the Journey from Portsmouth, N. H., to
Washington to be authorized as a naval
museum.
The bill discussed yesterday to make
oleomargarine and all other imitation
dairy products subject to the laws of the
state or territory into which they are
transported was called up by Mr. Grout,
republican, Of Vermont, and discussed
by Messrs. Cooper, democrat, of Florida,
and' Tucker, democrat, of Virginia, in
opposition, and Messrs. Northway, re
publican, of Florida, and Morse, republi
can. of Massachusetts, In favor of it.
The opposition was on the general
’ ground that the bill provided an inter
ference with the power of congress to
regulate Interstate commerce. The right
of a state to prevent the importation to
its boundaries of a product which the
laws of that state prohibited was the
basis for the arguments In favor.
The opposition, however, did not prove
formidable on the yea and nay vote on
the third reading which the opponents
of t'he measure accepted as final. The
yeas were 126 and the nays 96. Some
amendments to perfect the measure were
agreed to without opposition.
The president's message vetoing the
bill to create a new Judicial district in
Texas was referred to the committee on
the Judiciary.
Mr. Sherman, republican, of New York,
presented the Indian appropriation bill.
The house then, at 4:52 p. m., adjourned
until tomorrow.
MURDEROUS BURGLARS.
Kill a Woman While Her Husband Was
Defending the Building.
Macon, Ga., Jan. 14.—Mrs. William
Rowland, of Adam’s Park, twenty-two
miles below this city, was fatally shot
In the stomach last night by some un
known parties, who were attempting to
rob her husband’s store. Mrs. Rowland's
husband keeps a store at Adam’s Park,
to which Is attached his dwelling. Some
time after midnight one or more parties
called to Rowland to get up and let them
In. but he refused. A demand was then
made for money,.but this was also re
fused. The parties then opened a reti
ular fusllade on the house, and kent it
up for some time, although Rowland did
not return the fire. Finally .one of the
shots struck Mrs. Rowland In the stom
ach. Her groans seemed to frighten the
murderers ofT, as they then ceased firing
and departed. A posse with bloodhounds
Is In pursuit of the parties.
CADETS TURNED DOWN.
Washington, Jtj,n. 1*.—Among the tbifty
cadets dropped from the military acad
emy as a result of the January examina
tions was George Mason Lee, fourth
class, of Virginia, son of the American
eonstil-grenra! at Havana, who Was found
deficient in several studies. Secretary
Lamont has referred this case, together
with that of Phillip S. Ward, second
class, of New York, similarly dropped, to
the academic board for reconsideration,
It being reported that there were extenu
ating circumstances In each Instance.
The decision of the board Is final In such
matters.
THE COMMODORE DISASTER.
Report of the* Investigation Committee
Appointed for That Purpose.
Washington, Jan. 14.—Leo Vogel and
Charles A. Spencer. United State* steam
boat Inspectors, at Jacksonville, Fla.,
have reported to the treasury depart
ment the result of their Investigation as
to the sinking of the filibustering steamer
Commodore. They said that the vessel
was fully equipped In all respects. The
report further says: "Our opinion of the
sinking of the steamer Commodore Is
that It was due to the complication of
pipes for freeing the vessel of water not
being fully understood by the engineer's
department.”
As regards the loss of life, the report
states that “for some unknown reason"
a boat containing six men returned to the
vessel and the men endeavored to rig
up a raft and were carried down when the
ship sank. The loss of the vesesl Is
placed at $15,000 and cargo at $4,800. The
report says that Capt. Murphy did all In
his power to save the officers and crew.
THE TURF
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Jan. 14.—Warm weather
and a larger attendance marked the rac
ing here today. Favorites won only
twice, however, and the bookmakers got
the bulk of the sports.
First Race—Four-year-olds, selling,
seven furlongs. Glsmonda, 95 (Songer),
4 to 1 won, Sauterne second, Trilby third.
Time, 1:28%.
Second Race—Selling, one mile. Sha
ron. 107 (Scherrer), 2 to 1, won, Candy
second. Jack Hayes third. Time, 1:43%.
Third Race—Selling, mile and a six
teenth. Dorothy III., 96 (Hirsch) 5 to 2,
won, Fasig second, Ida Pickwick third.
Time, 1:49.
Fourth Race—Handicap, six furlongs.
Gaston, 94 (T. Burns), 4 to 5, won, Anger
second, Lady Brlttanlc third. Time,
1:16.
Fifth Race—Selling, seven furlongs.
Buckmore. 105 (Dorsey), 20 to 1, won, C.
C. Rumrill second. Novor third. Time,
1:31.
Sixth Race—Selling, six furlongs. Mar
quise, 100 (C. Reiff), 7 to 2, won, Maggie
S. second, Dora Wood third. Time,
1:14%.
TODAY’S ENTRIES.
New Orleans, Jan. 14.—Entries for to
morrow’s races:
First Race—Seven-eighths of a mile.
Princess Rose, 93; Alto June, 93; Judge
Bullock, 95; Lay On, 98; Sky Blue, 102;
Campania, 105! Ban Johnson, 105; Mon
tell, 105; The Sculptor, 106; Bob Clampltt,
105.
Second Race—Three-fourths of a mile.
Lott, 92; Vanessa. 95; Redena, 95; Plau
dits, 95; Nannie L’s Sister, 95; Juanita,
95; Miss Verne, 102; Clymena, 102; Tem
pests, 102; Minnie Murphy, 109.
Third Race—One and an eighth of a
mile, selling. St. Helena, 98; A1 Miles,
102; Fonshway, 103; Bridgeton, 105; Coun
tess Irma, 105; Cotton King, 107; Llnnette,
108; Lightfoot, 108; Davezac, 110.
Fourth Race—Seven-eighths of a mile,
handicap. Coldtop, 93; Necedah, 96; John
Conroy, 96; Viscount, 96; Lonely, 100; Hill
Billy, 105; Robert Latta, 110.
Fifth Race—Three-fourths of a mile,
selling. Nellie Osborne, 102; Dejure, 102;
Parasong. 102; Proverb, 104; Sffrlngtime,
104; Ettare, 104; Strathreel, 106; Darien,
107.
Sixth Race—Three-fourths of a mile,
selling. Gluck, 102; Pisa, 102; Comeaway,
104; Bus'tup, 108; Ruth, 107; Tommie Rut
ter, 109; Stark, 109; Whiff, 112.
STAE HERALD TIPS.
First Race—CAMPAINA, SKY BLUE,
BAN JOHNSON.
Second Race—MINNIE MURPHY,
CLTfMENA, LOTT.
Third Race—COUNTESS IRMA,
BRIDGETON, LUMETTE.
Fourth Race—LONELY, HILL BILLY,
VISCOUNT.
Fifth Race—STRATHREEL, SPRING
TIME, NELLIE OSBORN.
Sixth. Race—TOMMIE RUTTER,
WHIFF, GLUCK.
OAKLAND RESULTS.
Oakland, Cal., Jan. 14.—Weather cool,
track fast. One out of fiOe favorites
won.
First Race—Six furlongs, selling. Day
light, 105 (R. Isom), 7 to 2, won; Double
Quick second, Last Chance third. Time,
1:15%.
Second Race—Mile, selling. Pollock,
107 (Thorpe), 4 to 1, won; Woodchopper
second, Charles A., third. Time, 1:42%.
Third Race—Six furlongs, selling.
Reinzi, 100 (R: Isom), 5 to 1, won, Viking
second, Fortunate third. Time 1:15.
Fourth Race—Mile handicap. Flash
light, 100 (H. Martin), 12 to 1, won, In
stallator second, Schiller third. Time
1:40%.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs, selling.
Montgomery, 110 (Thorpe), 6 to 5, won,
Kowalsky second, Braw Scott third.
T(me 1:15.
CULBERSON HITS HARD.
Austin, Tex., Jan. 14.—Gov. Culberson
sent his message to both houses of the
ffexas legislature today. Among the
most Important measures touched on In
his recommendations are the platform
demands requiring each express company
to maintain a general office in this state;
also a proposition to make life Insurance
companies doing business In the state In
vest at least half of their receipts from
this state in Investments here. Under
this head the Governor whacks life in
surance companies hard, accusing them
of all manner of fraud in wringing money
from the people; touching on the general
assignment law, which will be a great
item In the session, the Governor places
himself on record as favoring an abolition
of the preferred creditors clause, saying
no ends will justify such means as nam
ing preferred creditors.
A VICIOUS FIGHT.
In Which Billy Duke Knocked Out Jack
Mullen In the Eighth Round.
Macon, Ga., Jan. 14.-—A vicious fight
between Bill Duke, of Baltimore, and
Jack Mullen, of New York, took place
here tonight at the Macon Athletic asso
ciation club. It was to have been a
twenty-round bout, hut Duke floored
Mullen in the eighth round.
The men were both in fine trims and
stood punishment like heroes. Duke got
first blood by landing a stinging blow
on Mullen’s noee In the third round.
The fourth to seventh rounds were
fought evenly, but in the eighth Duke’s
heavy-right and lefts did the work. A
powerful right hand swing on the Jaw
was the knock-out blow.
’ AFTER SEVEN DONG YEARS.
St. Joseph, Mo., Jan. 14.—After seven
years the St. Jodeph nail mills will be put
in operation about Feb. 1. Charles Well,
of Kansas Citjtj will operate the works,
and a large Rfrce of men will bo' em
ployed.
Ill THE FINANCIAL WORLD
Orange City Bank, of Jackson
ville, Fla*, Closed.
NO WARNING OF FAILURE
And Many Northern People Who Winter There
Are Caught Napping.
STOCKHOLDERS COULD NOT AGREE
And All Necessary Was to Qo Into Liqui
dation, and They Did It—Another Flor
ida Bank Closes Cairying With
It Still Another—A Bad Showing.
Jacksonville. Ffh., Jan. 14.—The Orange
City bank, a private institution, of which
John E. Stillman, chairman of the repub
lican executive committee of this state,
is president, has closed its doors, and
R. S. Leavitt, of Orange City, the as
signee, is now ln: charge. The cashier of
the bank was Arthur Stillman, a brother
of the president. The Stillman brothers
were the principal owners of the bank,
and they have assigned all of their prop
erty to R. S. Leavitt for the benefit of
creditors. There was no warning of the
failure, and within the past few weeks
several northern people who have homes
in the vicinity of Orange City have de
posited various sums in the bank. No
statement of the assets or liabilities of
the bank has yet been announced.
WARRING FACTIONS.
Cause the Directors of a Bank to Decide
Upon liquidation.
Charlotte, N. C., Jan. 14.—At the an
nual meeting of the stockholders of the
Charlotte Loan and Savings bank, held
yesterday, It was; decided to go into li
quidation and wind up the affairs of that
institution. It appeared that the Craig
investment in that bank was desired to
be placed elsewhere, and this being a con
trolling interest in the bank it was de
cided that the best course to pursue was
to wind up the business of the bank.
Mr. John Oates declined a re-election as
president of the bank on account of other
business engagements, and Mr. J. A.
Craig was appointed to succeed him.
Mr. L. 3. Battle was continued as cash
ier.
At the meeting of the stockholdersPres
ident Oates submitted his report, which
showed the bank to be in a perfectly
sound and healthy condition and the af
fairs in good shape. It will go out of
business without the loss of a dollar to
any stockholder or depositor.
COULDN’T CbLLECT
And the Merchants* Bank of Ocala, Fla.,
Had to Close Up
Ocala., Fla., Jan. 14:—The Merchants'
bank of Ocala closed its doors this morn
ing and the depositors will have to wait
for their money. The cause assigned for
thei failure of the bank is that it was irn-4
possible to make collections. The bank
had a capital stock of $100,000. R. B.
McConnell is president. It was founded
seventeen years ago by John F. Dunn, ini
apposition to the First National bank of
Ocala, which failed two years ago and
whose president, E. W. Agnew, is under
five years sentence for embezzling bank
funds. • •
AND THIS ONE FOLLOWED.
Brooksvllle, Fla., Jan. 14.—The Brooks
vllle state bank has closed its doors tem
porarily on account of the suspension of
the Merchants’ bank of Ocala this morn
ing. The losses are pretty general. Con
fidence, however, remains in the honesty
of the officials of this bank.
A BAD SHOWING.
Minneapolis, Minn., Jan. 14.—At a meet
ing last night of the depositors in the
■ Northern Trust -company of this city
which failed recently, it developed that
the concern will pay a very small divi
dend, if any, unless it is received from
the stockholders, many of whom reside
in' the east, principally IH Philadelphia.
It also developed that many of the shock
holders have paid but 60 per cent, on
their stock.
BRYAN ACCEPTED,
But Bourke Cockran and Grover Cleve
land Promptly Turned Down.
Jefferson City, Mo., Jan. 14.—In the
senate yesterday.g Joint resolution was
adopted providing that an invitation be
given to Hon. W. J. Bryan to visit Jeffer
son City and deliver ah address before
the legislature. The house also adopted
the resolution.
Representative Tubbs offered an
amendment to the effect that the name
of Bourke Cockran be inserted along
with Bryan. This brought Representa
tive Tribble, of Dunklin county, to the
front with a red-hot Speech in which he
classed Cockran^s a renegade.
Representative Regan, of St. Louis,
also amended to Insert the name of
Grover Cleveland In the invitation and
there was a general uproar of "no” and
hisses.
The Bryan invitation was finally adopt
ed, bufeno date has been, fixed.
IROI} -A^p $TEKIri ppADE.
Pittsburg, j*A, Jan. 14.—The American
Manufacturer In its edition tomorrow
will say concerning the outlook in the
iron and steel trade: .t.
The iron and steel situation throughout
the country shows nothing more than a
general dullness, and the same old wait
ing for something to turn wp: At no point
is there anything special noted by our
market correspondents this week. At
Philadelphia the activity noted recently
suddenly stopped and a large amount of
promised business is TieTng held up. In
activity shown is m merenants steel. Pig
iron in ttyft ' Chlcaxb rn«tWts shows a
little more life than It did some time ago.
Southern brands are a little' weaker.
Louisville reports a irtd'cH better feeling
in pig iron. It seems that same extreme
ly low prldeKjare situ being ,taken for
Bessemer stdsk- 'Wlheselinjilrfcports quite
low figures! 14: that ’Wrifef’Wtt generally
speaking the flurry shown recently has
subsided. There are ho new develop
ments shown In pool mattgrs. "
in tApi Stands “of a" mob.
■Middlesboro, Ky., Jan. 14.^-A mob is re
ported gatherlhg-at Hayden, Lieslle coun
ty, to lynch W. H. Garnett, colored, under
arrest for the outrage andwwrder of Miss
Polly Felbner. Unless Garnett can prove
an alibi he ^dll swing bjfore morning.
Hayden is Sixty miles fro*here, and has
i no tekgraptr'efflce. ‘
the west the
the expected
waiting for
menu . The most
NO COMPROMISE WANTED
Absolute Freedom for Cuba or
Nothing
SAYS GONZALES QUESADO
Humors That Gomez Has Prepared a Treaty
of Peace Totally Untrue.
VICTORY IS ON THE CUBAN BANNERS
Steamship Delaware Taken by Filibusters
BotofT Arrested—Louis Someillan Sen
tenced to Life Imprisonment in
Chains—Other Arrests.
Washington, Jan. 14.—Senor Gonzales
Quesada, head of the Cuban Junta In
Washington, was informed this morning
that a story had been published to the
-effect that Secretary Olney and Minister
Delome had drawn up articles to end the
Cuban war, on lines proposed by Gen.
Gomez. Ser.or Quesada emphatically de
nied that any such action had been taken
or could be approved by the Cubans. He
said the story was absolutely false, as
Gen. Gomez had never proposed any re
form iror was there a Cuban In the island
that would accept anything but absolute
independence. To make his denial
stronger Senor Quesada quoted from a
decree issued by Gen. Gomez some time
ago, which is now a law and in which he
said that any one in Cuba bringing over
tures of peace based on anything but In
dependence was to be regarded as a
traitor and would be summarily dealt
wlih, and further, that any treaty of
peace with Spain which must necessarily
have for its basis absolute independence
of the island of Cuba, must be ratified by
the government council of Cuba, and by
an assembly of representatives convened
expressly for that purpose.
Senor Quesada today received a letter
from President Cyneros, of the republic
of Cuba, dated Dec. 2, which enclosed
sortie new postage stamps of the Cuban
republic. He read extracts from this let
ter, in which President Cyneros express
ed his gratification that the people and
congress of the United States continued
to show their sympathy for Cuba. He
said he was preparing an appeal in which
the government of the Cuban republic
would ask for recognition of the inde
pendence of the island. He further stated
that they were preparing to renew an
offensive campaign. Gen. Gomez had
left to enter Santa Clara, with rein
forcements and a good supply of muni
tions of war. Gomez’s route would be
further west. President Cysnero also
said that the condition was most pros
persons and that they had an abundance
of munitions of war, not only of rifles, but
of annon and dynamite cannon. Rail
roads would be destroyed and all the few
remaining garrisoned towns in the in
terior would be abandoned by Spaniards
who would return to the coast.
President Cysneros concluded that they
expected to receive very soon the desired
materials from abroad, which will en
able Cubans to drive the Spaniards to the
sea and then the Cubans would bid the
enemy a last good bye.
Both at the state department and at the
Spanish legation emphatic denials are
made that any provisional draft of terms
of surrender has been received by Secre
tary Olney and discussed by him and
Mr. Dupuy De Lome, the Spanish minis
ter. Senor Pablo Solar, mentioned as
the messenger who arrived here from
Madrid on Monday, bringing the com
plete document, is the second secretary
of the Spanish legation, and arrived here
more than three weeks ago and took
charge of his duties. Senor De Lome has
not had an interview with Secretary
Olney, except at the formal reception,
for more than a week. There has been
absolutely no change in the situation
since the President's annual message to
congress.
' A NEEDLESS ALARM.
Steamship Delaware Taken for a Filibus
ter and Boarded by a Revenue Officer.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 14.—The steam
ship Delaware, of the Clyde’s Boston,
Wilmington, Charleston and Jacksonville
line, came into port this morning, having
on board Lieut. Sutherland of the United
States dispatch boat Dolphin. The pres
ence of the lieutenant on board the steam
er is accounted for by the fact that she
was taken for a filibuster when she ap
peared off the bar.
It all grew out of the lighting of a
match, and the officers on thg govern
ment vessel, ever on the alert to catch
any filibuster along the Florida coast,
flashed its searchlight over the waters to
leard the meaning of the little flame. The
light settled on a small row boat in which
was seated a pilot awaiting the arrival of
the Delaware to bring her in over the
bar.
j}ne appearance or a man in a smau
row boat at sea at so early an hour ex
cited the suspicions of the officers on
board the Dolphin and the boat and man
were kept under close surveillance. When
the Delaware hove In sight, before day
light, and the pilot boarded her, the cir
cumstances were regarded wlthevenmore
suspicion. Lieut. Sutherland boarded the
Delaware endgame into port with her.
Upon arriving here he visited the office
of Frank Clark, United States district
attorney, but the nature of his visit
could not be learned. It is presumed,
however, that he was satisfied that the
Delaware was not a filibuster, for he re
turned to the Dolphin about noon, going
dawn on the revenue cutter Colfax.
Lieut. Sutherland was seen during his
short visit to this city, and when asked
as to the day when the Dolphin would
come Into port, replied that he could not
sky. The vessel was then waiting for a
morning tide. The lieutenant said the
officers and the men of the man-of-war
were very anxious to visit Jacksonville.
The Dolphin will await the arrival of the
cruiser Newark before coming in, she
.being subject to theorders of Capt. (Ma
son o#- the cruiser. He said that the
Newark was expected to arrive off the
bar today from Port Royal. Specials
eent out from here stating that the Dela
ware* was fired on are pure fakes.
V ! MORE WAR NEWS.
Spaniards Continue to Destroy Huts and
Kill Rebels Without Loss.
Havana, Jan. 14.—Official reports con
tinue to be received here, detailing skirm
ishes in various parts of the island and
destruction by the troops of large num
bers of huts, Infirmaries, tents, etc., and
the capture of quantities of provisions
and munitions of war. The aggregate
kisses of the rebels In these skirmishes
In the provinces of Mantanzas, Havana
and Pinal- del Rio was fifty-four killed.
nine wounded and eighteen taken pris
oners. In the province of Plnar del Rio
alone four camps, with 400 huts, were de
stroyed by the troops. The aggregate
Spanish loss was two men killed and one
officer and fifty-one privates wounded.
-o
A FAKE PURELY.
Report of Firing Upon the Steamship
Delaware, Which Is Authoritatively
Denied.
New York, Jan. 14.—A Jacksonville spe
cial to the Evening Journal says that at
2 o'clock this morning the dispatch boat
Dolphin fired upon and seized the Clyde
line steamer Delaware and a large launch
that was alongside at Mayport, at the
mouth of the St. John's river.
The Delaware, Capt. Ingram, left Bos
ton last Friday for Charleston and Jack
sonville. The special says the launch,
under charge of Capt. Kemp, a bar pilot,
started from Jacksonville ostensibly for
St. Augustine, but lay to at the mouth
of the river. The Delaware came In close
this morning and then turned and stood
out to sea. The launch followed. The
Dolphin turned her search-lights on the
vessel and then pursued, firing on both
vessels. The firing stopped them. The
launch was left at Mayport In charge of
a detail from the Dolphin, and the Dela
ware was brought up the river.
AN INTRICATE QUESTION.
Stamps of the Cuban Republic on Ret
- ters Appear in This- Country.
Washington, Jan. 14.—1The appearance
of the stamps of the so-called Cuban rer
public in t'he United States mails has
caused much comment here and' was the
source of some discussion at the post
office department today as to whether
such stamps could be recognized as
proper for the transmission of mails into
the United States, as this government
has not recognized Cuba as a free and
independent country. This is« probably
the first case of its kind where insurgents
have established their own postoffices
and used their own stamps which were
transmitted in the mails to the United
States.
At the postofflce department it was
stated that these stamps were good so
far as the United States was concerned,
as our postal laws require only that the
stamps be properly cancelled and the en
velopes containing mail matter bear the
postmark of a regular postofflce. These
regulations have been complied with so
far as the department knows. Had they
not been admissible, the letters bearing
these stamps would 'have been marked
with the letter “t” at the receiving offices
In this country, meaning “tax collect.”
The department knows nothing about
the postoffice stamped1 on: the envelope
except that it is in Spanish territory,
and Spain Is in the international postal
union.
These stamps might give rise to a delW
cate diplomatic question In which the
postofflce department would take no
part, but refer the matter to the depart
ment of state for settlement.
GENERAL ROLOFF ARRESTED
For Complicity In a Filibustering Expe
diton—He is Allowed Bail.
New York, Jan. 14.—General Carlos Ro
loff, secretary of war, of the Cuban re
public, was arreBted last night on a war
rant sworn out by the Spanish consul
charging him with violation of the neu
trality laws in connection with the al
leged filibustering expedition to Cuba on
the staemer Woodall June 28, 1895. Ro
loff was locked up In Ludlow street jail
over night, and brought before Commis
sioner Shields this morning. The arrest
came to the knowledge of his friends so
late that they could not arrange for his
release on ball. They are indignant at
the arrest having been so timed as to
render all efforts to prevent his incarce
ration futile.
General Roloff was arrested as he was
leaving No. 22 Fulton street, and taken
to jail at once. He had been ill for some
time, and when his friends brought some
medicine for him to the Jail, he was not
allowed to receive it, the officials saying
they could not give it to him without an
order from the marshal or somebody else.
Just who was to issue the order, the of
ficial failed to make plain.
General Roloff looked worn and hag
gard when he came before Commissioner
Shields shortly before 11 o’clock this
morning. Arraigned with him on a slmD
lar charge was Dr. Joseph L Leuis. Each
pleaded not guilty, and were held under
82,500 ball for examination on Saturday
next. Bail was furnished.
TO LIVE IN CHAINS
During His Existence Is the Sentence of
Luis Somelllan.
Havana, Jan. 14.—At 12:30 p. m. today
the sentence was read In the case of Luis
Somelllan, naturalized American citizen,
who has been found guilty of conspiring
against the Spanish government. The
sentence of the tribunal before which he
was tried is that he be imprisoned for
life in chains. Sometllan's lawyer will
appeal to the supreme court at Madrid
against the decision of the Havana
tribunal.
Among the various conclusions of the
tribunal, based on the charges against
the prisoner, the following was the most
important;
“Whereas, public rumor, in attributing
to Somelllan disaffection to the Spanish
cause, was not misguided, since htt
change of nationality for an unjustified
and unexplained reason suggests a ra
tional suspicion that whoever breaks in
such a way his traditions and history is
actuated by hatred of, or at least Indiffer
ence to his ancient country, and changes
his nationality In order to, while con
tinuing to enjoy the advantages of Span
ish legislation and the customs of Span
ish society, carry in the bottom of his
soul the ferment of separation, of which
Somelllan is a living and personal ex
ample.”
The tribunal also discarded all the evi
dence favorable to the prisoner, saying
that there was ex parte evidence of a
complot to misguide the tribunal.
El Pueblo, the organ of the autonomist
party in Puerto Principe, has been sup
pressed by order of the government. The
editor of the paper, Senor Zequlra. a
former correspondent of La Discussion,
and other prominent persons of the lo
cality, have been arrested.
Louis Lays, the young American who
was arrested some months ago at Regia,
across the bay from Havana, was re
leased today from the Cabanas fortress,
where he had been confined since his ar
rest.
ASPHYXIATION THE CAUSE.
Two Prominent Typos Meet Death In the
Same Room.
•New York, Jan. 14.—William Ferguson
and James McKenna were found dead In
a room of a Harlem hotel this morning.
The men occupied the room together.
They had ben asphyxiated by gas.
Ferguson and McKenna were promi
nent mebers of -Typographical union No.
t. Ferguson was the secretary and treas
urer of “Big Six," and McKenna was at
one time vice-president of the Interna
tional union.
ONE Of RANDOLPH'S CHECKS
Discounted and Its Payment
Promptly Checked.
A SAVING TO THE STATE
Which Thou^^ nail in Comparison to V/hat
V Was Lost Helps
-
TO CUTiP WN THE LARGE DEFICIENCY
/
< rtl
Many * plications for the Coroner's Offlco
F/iJ* £ Iiaid Before the Governor—Su*
vf treme Court Hands Down De
cisions and Adjourns.
Montgomery, Jan. H—(Special.)—A let
ter has Just been received by Governor
Johnston from the Union bank of London
notifying him that the bank had acceded'
to 'his request and would stop payment
on one unpaid draft for $1,250, drawn by
the Crocker-Woolworth National bank of
San Francisco, in favor of Francis C.
Randolph, alias Charles Radford.
The first information received by the
executive office that Judge Randolph had
bought London exchange in San Fran
cisco, was about the last week In Octo
ber through a paper filed by Mr. Rush
ton, representing one of Randolph^
bond'smtn. Mr. Rushton's information,
was that three drafts of $1,250 each had
been bought from the Crocker-Wool
worth bank, being drawn on the Union
bank of London. The matter lay over
until several days after Governor John
ston came into office, when his attention
was called to it by Attorney-General
Fitts. Governor Johnston at once wrote
to the London bank stating the facts,
that the drafts were bought with money
belonging to the state, asking that pay
ment be stopped and also for a statement
as to how many drafts had been paid and
how many were still to pay.
The reply of the bank is dated Decem
ber 31, and shows that in all Randolph
bought seven drafts from the San Fran
cisco bank, each being for $1,250, or $8,750*
in all. Of these, six 'had1 been paid by
the London bank on the following dates:
May 23, September 12 and September 21,
1895, one each, and on October 2. 1895,
two, being five in 1895, and one on De
cember 23, 1896. Governor Johnston’s
letter was thus in time to stop only one
of them, but that means $1,250 to the
treasury of the state. Action taken a
little sooner after the information about
the drafts was received,, would have
stopped another and saved $1,290 more to
the state. Five of the drafts were paid
in_J895, and, long before any knowledge
of them had reached the executive of
fice. I
MANY APPLICATIONS.
The applications pouring into the Gov*
ernor’s office for the office of coroner,
made vacant by the death of the lam
ented R. E. Jones, continues unabated.
The following well-known citizens of Bir
mingham have entered the race, and
have applications on file:
R. C. Smith, C. E. Burkhalter, Henry
Kelly, W. IM. Newton, Morrell B. Sim
mons, J. T. Wilson, W. K. Sawyer, J.
D. Gresham and Phil Cosminsky. This
is all up to date, and more are expected.
The celebrated Stmms-Meachim feud,
which was reported a few days ago as
about to break out afresh In southwest
Alabama, proves to be untrue. The
Governor sent a clipping from one of the
papers containing the report, to the sher
iff of Clark county for information, and
he reported it absolutely unfounded and
that all was quiet.
The Hon. Hugh Wilson, late editor of
the State Herald, is in the city today
circulating among his friends, and they
are legion.
The supreme court finished the call
of the Fourth division today, and will
not be in session again until the 25th of
January, when the 'Eighth division will
be called. The following decisions were
handed in today, and one by Judge Cole
man, from the Gadsden city court, is es
pecially interesting:
SUPREME COURT DECISIONS.
Coleman, J.—James F. Carleton et al.
vs. S. J. Carleton, appeal from Gadsden
city court. Action in trespass. A plaint
iff may aver a trespass upon land in a
count for trespass upon the person, and
recover for both, when the averments are
such as to show but one transaction. But
when the count shows that damages are
sought for a trespass upon the land
and for a trespass upon the person, and
the pleadings fail to show that they are
of the same transaction, the two cannot
be united In one count. Reversed and
remanded.
Haralson, J.—Jim Jones vs. the State
of Alabama, appeal from Walker circuit
court; reversed and remanded.
Elias Thornton vs. the State of Ala
bama, appeal from Butler circuit court;
affirmed.
MORE WORKMEN TO SUFFER.
Another Curtailment in Cotton Mills of
Massachusetts Imminent.
Boston, Mass., Jan. 14—There is every
prospect that New England Is on the
verge of another mill curtailment, al
though not to as large an extent, proba
bly, as occurred during last summer.
Hon. T. J. Coolldge, treasurer of the
Amoskeag mills says: “Business has
been so bad the last few weeks that a
curtailment of production seems almost
necessary. The Fall River mills appear
to be the greatest sufferers, but all lines
are suffering from over-production. I
am in hopes of some improvement in the
spring, but as yet there are no signs of
any, and it certainly should be apparent
by this time. The great demand for our
goods is a very favorable sign and should
help the situation. The situation is .how
ever, a poor one. The impoverishment
of the country prevents the people from
using goods of which they were former
ly large consumers, and in consequence,
we have an over-production in all com
modities. The only remedy apparent is
the curtailment In production and I
think it will have to come shortly In
some of the mills which have been un
able to sell their goods.
“If a curtailment Is made, each mill
will probably take its own course. Some
mills may think It cheaper to shut down
entirely for a time, while others may
think it cheaper to keep running on forty
hours or less a week.
LOOKS LIKE "ME TOO."
Albany, N. Y., Jan. 14.—The Joint cau
cus of the republican members of the
state legislature today nominated Thoa.
C. Platt as United States senator to suc
ceed David R. Hill. Mr. Platts received
142 votes and Joseph H. Choate; the only
other candidate, 7 votes. ":rBIRMINGHAM STATE
HERALD.
VOLUME 22.
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1897.
NUMBER 365
WORSE THAN_PESTILENCE
Has Proven Weyler’s Infamous
Bayate Edict,
FORCED FROM 1 HEIR HOMES
People Are Driven Into Already Overcrowded
Towns and Villages.
THEIR MISERY NOW BEING AUGMENTED
By the Privations They Are Obliged to Un
dergo—The Situation Depicted—Unit
ed States Army Officer Will
Fight For Cuba.
Key West, Fla., Jan. 15.—Advices from
Havana state that the effort of Weyler's
flamous Bayate edict of the 1st instant, is
being felt with more intensity in the
provinces of Havana and Matanzas than
in that of Pinar del Rio, since these
provinces are more thickly populated and
with more farms and estates than the
former. The wholesale abandonment of
the properties and the concentration of
the people in the towns will not only aug
ment the misery already prevailing, but
aleo present the serious inconvenience of
lodging so many people In towns already
full to overflowing.
Without discussing Weyler's barbarous
and inhuman measures in thus depriving
peaceful and unoffending citizens of their
rightful means of existence, and hud
dling them in already crowded places,
exposed to all the rigors of hunger and
disease, simply for the sake of clearing
the country of so-called rebel sympathiz
ers, a legal point has been sprung by the
foreign property owners, especially the
Americans, who own large properties in
the provinces of Havana and Matanzas,
which will surely lead to complications
and claims on the Spanish government.
Weyler distinctly states in his decree
that those who wish to remain on their
properties must exhibit the last tax bill
paid. Now, it is a recognized law that
taxes arc only levied on productive indus
tries, and these planters have not been
able to work on account of the abnormal
conditions in the provinces since Gomez’s
invasion in December, 1895. No taxes
have been collected since that time, the
government tacitly admitting such un
usual circumstances, or being powerless
to collect them because the rebels were In
possession of the country, did not press
their collection, consequently no taxes
have been paid in the country since the
date mentioned. Besides that, Weyler
has unofficially ordered that no sugar
crop should be made, and now he wants
the sugar planters to pay taxes on an
industry which they have not been able
to produce. The legal absurdity can
readily be seen.
The result has been that the manager of
the sugar estate "San Antonio," near
Madruga, Havana, owned by Mr. Antonio
Terry, an American, residing in Paris,
presented himself to Consul Lee, demand
ing protection, because the military com
mander of Madruga ordered him to aban
don the place (which, by the way, is one
of the most valuable estates in the prov
ince, worth at least half a million dollars),
because he did not present the required
tax bill. Consul Lee at once took the case
in hand and simultaneously presented the
same to the captain-general and the state
department at Washington. No replies
have been received yet, either from Wey
ler or from Olney.
To depict the situation in Pinar del
Rio, nothing can be better said than to
translate the report of a trip made to the
city of that name by a correspondent of
La Lucha:
"All the way traversed by the railroad
from Artemlsa to Consolacion del Sur, is,
without exaggeration, the most chastised
and undoubtedly has suffered most from
the rigors of war.
"The fields waste and abandoned, the
bushes and trees burnt, and the yellow
and decayed leaves strewn by the wind,
as tears drawn from the mother earth,
pained and anguished at the folly of men;
the huts destroyed; the stone houses, in
other times happy homes, converted by
the hands of rebels and Spanish alike into
heaps of ruins, the black and fallen walls
of which, covered with Hchen, only serve
as a refuge for the lizards and owls, the
can fields dried up, and covered with
bushes by the ravages of the fire; the
towns—the authorities of which are mak
ing great efforts to remedy the necessi
ties of the residents—full of people, of
poor families, who daily troop down from
the hills, extenuated by hunger and
emaciated by the fevers, in such a way
that they resemble skeletons risen out of
their tombs to appear before the final
Judgment; to the right and felt of the
road, as much as the train winds its rapid
march, the traveler observes with pain
ful anguish the desolation and ruin with
in the inextinguishable poetry of these
exuberant fields, always green with the
eternal verdure of spring, as if God, with
His eloquence, would point us that the
only thing we can do is to destroy the
beauties which surged from His bounte
ous will.”
TO FIGHT FOR CUBA.
An Officer In the United States Army
Resigned lor That Purpose.
Washington, Jan. 15.—Second Lieut.
Charles E. Hayes, of the Eighteenth In
fantry, who Is a native of Illinois, and
rose from the ranks five years ago, has
resigned his commission.
In his resignation, which was accepted
by the President today, to date from Jan
uary G, he made no reference to his future
movements, but In transmitting the res
ignation to his colonel he said he was
going to fight for Cuba’s freedom.
-o
REFORMS FOR CUBA.
The Spanish Cabinet in Council So De
cides—Sangullly to Be Paadoned.
London, Jan. 15.—A dispatch to the
Central News from Madrid suys that at a
cabinet council over which the queen
regent presided, it has been decided to
Immediately Introduce reforms in Cuba,
and a decree putting the reforms into
effect will be published on the king's fete
day. The dispatch also says It is proba
ble that Julio Sangullly, the naturalized
American citizen recently sentenced in
Havana to life Imprisonment for coii
spiracy against the Spanish government,
will be granted a free pardon.
The Madrid correspondent of the Stand
ard confirms the statement that the Span
ish government has decided to immedi
ately effect reforms In Cuba. The re
forms will show to what extent the gov
ernment Is prepared to go In gradually
preparing the colonies for autonomy
without yielding the rights of Spain and
• parliament. It will also soon be se6n
VJiat Spain Is disposed to muke sacrifices
In connection with the Cuban budget.
The reforms will not be realized without
seriously clashing with Spain’s material
Interests. Spaniards look with im
portance and anxiety to the effect the
reforms will have In America.
CHARGED WITH FILIBUSTERING.
New York, Jan. 15.—Enrique Trujillo,
editor of the Cuban newspaper El Por
venir, was arrested by United States
deputy marshals this afternoon on com
plaint of the Spanish consul. Tru
jillo is accused of having aided and
abetted a filibustering expedition which
sailed from this port on the steamship
Horsa on Nov. 9, 1S95. He was arraigned
before Commissioner Shields and was put
under $2,500 ball for examination on Sat
urday, Jan. 23. He furnished cash bail.
MINISTER WILLIS DEAD.
The Minister to Haw'all Passes Away,
After a Long Illness.
Honolulu, Jan. 7, via San Francisco,
Jan. 16.— (Correspondence of Southern As
sociated Press, Per Steamer Monowai.)—
United States Minister Albert S. Willis
died at his residence yesterday at 8 a.
m., after several months’ illness. The
direct cause of death was pneumonia,
which he contracted in San Francisco
early last year. His condition had been
at times such that it gave his family
hopes of his ultimate recovery, and again
It was precarious to a degree that filled
his physicians with grave alarm. A few
days ago his condition was much im
proved and his family renewed their
hopes, but the change for the better was
but temporary. Some time after mid
night Tuesday Minister Willis’ condition
began growing worse, and it was seen
that the end was not far off. He lost
consciouness and his breathing was dif
ficult, and in, this condition he remained
until the dissolution took place.
It is not known whether an escort will
be sent with the remains, but it seems
to be the opinion of a number of citizens
that the representative of the foreign
office should be detailed as escort to ac
company the remains to Louisville and
turn them over to-the officials there until
the funeral takes place. A detail of gen
tlemen, selected by t'he minister of for
eign affairs, will remain at the Willis res
idence.
Directly the intelligence of the death
of the minister was received by the gov
ernment the flags on the judiciary build
ing the military headquarters were low
ered to half-mast. Most of the business
houses and shipping followed suit as soon
as the death was known.
THE GEORGIA SCANDAL ,
Testimony In One Case Complete and the
Other Will Be Finished Today—No
Impeachment, the Prophesy.
Atlanta, Ga.. Jan. 15.—The evidence In
the Sweat investigation, was concluded
this afternoon with a statement from the
judge himself. Congressman-elect W. M.
Howard was a witness for Judge Seaborn
Reese, and the latter’s case will be con
cluded tomorrow.
Judge Joel Sweat, In his statement,
said that he always had admitted that
he was under the influence of champagne
at the bankers^ banquet on St. Simons
Island, but he denied that he was drunk
the next day on the bench or that he
ever was drunk at any other time on
the bench. He went into the details of
his visit to Indian Springs, and told of
his meeting with Miss Bradley and .Mrs.
Crosby. He denied that he had ever
made any Improper remark to either,
and he said tha.t If Miss Bradley of any
of her friends or relatives construed what
he did say as being improper or Insulting
they were mistaken. He also denied that
he had packed a jury for Toomer, who
was a candidate for solicitor. In sum
ming up the tales Jurors, the judge stated
that two turned out to be for Toomer
and two for his opponent.
Mr. Howard, testifying in the case of
Judge Reese, stated that the judge never
was drunk on. the bench, and that he
as solicitor, had attended nearly all the
courts. Senator Carter asked the witness
if he were not a drinking man himself
and the' congressman-elect replied hotly,
Chairman Felder rapped sharply with his
gavel, and for a minute there was some
excitement, but no collision.
The evidence in the Reese case will
be completed tomorrow, after which the
committee will make up its report to the
house of representatives. It is regarded
as certain that 'the report will be ad
verse to an impeachment.
WEEKLY BANK STATEMENT.
Shows a Large Increase In the Cash In
Hand.
New York, Jan. 15.--The weekly state
ment of the associated banks to be Is
sued tomorrow will show a large In
crease In the cash on 'hand, as the conse
quence of an unusual state of affairs In
the money market. About a month ago
the presidents and other leading officers
of some forty banks belonging to the
clearing house attended a dinner at the
Union league club, given by Henry W.
Cannon, president of the Chase National
bank. At this fathering an understand
ing was reached that no call loans or in
other words, loans repayable on demand,
should be made a rate less than 2 per
cent, per annum. For three or four
weeks previously most of the call loans
had been made at H4 per cent. At this
rate the banks did r.ot consider that they
were receiving anadequatereturn on their
money. During the present week the
bzorrowers found they could obtain mon
ey from the trust companies, insurance
companies and other large lenders at U4
per cent.
Accordingly they shifted their loans to
a large extent; that is, they paid off the
loans to the banks and got accommodat
ed frojn the lenders whose rates were one
half per cent, lower. The banks secured
only a small part of the new loans. The
rapid accumulatlin of money In their
vaults which was earning nothing at all
finally brought them to a realization that
their agreement to keep the call money
rate up to 2 per cent, could no longer be
adhered to with advantage and today
most of them were accepting offers of
1V& Per cent. Although the tendency of
money Is downward all over the world,
it is cheaper in New York than anywhere
else.
INVESTIGATION ASKED.
Albany, N. Y., Jan. 15.—In the senate
today Senator Lexow offered a resolution
for an investigation of the existence of
monopolies and trusts. He asked that
this resolution be made a special order
for next Tuesday. He said he believed
that the republican party should take
hold of this Important question, which
was now agitating the public. The mo
tion to make the resolution a special or
der- for Tuesday was adopted.
TELLER UNOPPOSED.
Denver, Col., Jan. 15.—The election of
the United States senator will take place
next Tuesday. It was tacitly agreed
to today that no name should be presenf
ed by either party against Senator Tel
ler so that he will be chosen otsucceed
himself entirely without opposition.
A CONFLICT OF REPORTS
As to the Trade Conditions by
Dun and Bradstreet.
ONE BRINGS GOOD NEWS
While the Other Directly Contradicts the Prom
ised Era of Improvement.
A LARGE DEMAND FOR STEEL
Owing to Bridge and Terminal Improve
ments, Though Prices are Slightly
Off—Large Purchases of Wooland
Some Dealings in Leather.
New York, Jan. 15.—R. G. Dun & Co.
will say tomorrow In their weekly review
of trade: The greatest growth and pros
perity the country had ever seen came
suddenly lh 1879, after several months of
disappointment, because specie resump
tion had not yet brought the benefits ex
pected. It bakes time for new confi
dence to reach through easier money
markets, larger orders, resuming bills, ex
panding employment and larger distribu
tion, to the results which make still
greater and lasting gain possible. Such
gradual and steady Improvement has
been In progress for more than twc.
months. The output of pig Iron has
gained 41.6 per cent, since Oct. 1. The
output of coke has Increased 88.7 percent,
since Oct. 1. Sales of wool have again
become large. Money markets feel a
steady increase in demand for commer
cial and manufacturing loans. Addi
tional works have gone Into operation
each week in January and,the working
force Is larger than at any other time for
six months.
It Is no time of high prices. Many who
are anxious to get early hold on the mar
ket are making for the moment lower
prices than they could afford to maintain.
With the increase in output of pig Iron to
159,720 tons weekly,, against 142,278 last
month, the price Is a shade lower at the
east and Chicago, but heavy purchases
already advance. Bessemer a shade at
Pittsburg. Steel bars have been reduced
to 1 cent, and some other finished pro
ducts $1 per ton, but the demand Is on
the whole steadily growing. The coke
output has risen from 50,000 to 94,000 tons
weekly, and minor metals are a shade
stronger.
Textile manufacturers are not encour
aged by the demand for goods, though
more print cloths were sold than for
many weeks. Lower prices are expected
in goods, and slow buying is not unnatur-, I
al, since cotton has fallen 17.8 per cent. I
from Sept. 11; print cloths, 7 per cent,;
bleached goods, 3% to 6V4; and brown
goods, 2%, 3 and 4 per cent. Though
wqolen goods .do not improve, there have
been purchases by large mills, whichfc
cover for two weeks of January il,110,30v
pounds at the three chief markers,
against 11,817,600 last year. Some large
purchases of leather indicate that some
shoe.manufacturers are seeing their way
to more active work and shipments from
the east in January thus far are 20 per
cent, larger than last year.
The Pennsylvania and some other
roads have commenced to buy rails and
several costly improvements have been
ordered, the Columbia bridge alone call
ing for 7,000 tone of steel and a terminal
improvement for the Erie will cost $1,
000,000.
The money market has been disturbed
by a combination of large bankers not to
lend on call below 2 per cent, which in
vited all sorts of financial Institutions to
take the market, caused payment ’ of
bank loans for some millions and left
supplies of funds so heavy that the loans
were sharply marked down. More was
done in commercial paper, though offer
ings Increased but moderately. Receipts
from the interior exceeded shipments by
$1,500,000. Exports continue to exceed
last year’s for the week 8 per cent., while
imports fell 10 per cent, below last year’s.
Failures for the week have been 465 in
the United States against 395 last year
and 71 in Canada against 81 last year.
BRADSTREET'S REPORT.
New York, Jan. 15.—Bradstreet’s to
morrow will say: Except at a few south
ern cities, as reported last week, whole
sale merchants throughout the country
note no change in trade features and few
Indications of improvement in the near
future. Mercantile collections continue
slow. Some Jobbers at Chicago, St. Louis,
Baltimore and other large cities report
increased demand for dry goods, hats,
shoes, hardware and groceries for spring
delivery, but that in other lines busineso
is very dull. Dealers in staples at cities
in Texas, Louisiana, Georgia, Tennessee
and South Carolina report a better de
mand for hardware and agricultural sup
plies compared with last week. Some
Baltimore salesmen are securing relative
ly fair orders. There has been no re
vival in textile circles, except increased
purchases of wool at Boston by some of
the larger manufacturers. Cotton goods
continue depressed at first hands, with
little prospect for Improvement until af
ter production has been restricted.
December gross railway earnings are
relatively more favorable than those in
preceding months, showing a decrease
of 1.5 per cent, from December, 1895. The
best December reports were by south
western and southern roads which show
gains over December totals in 1896.
Bradstreet's comparisons of prices of
108 staple articles and products at quar
terly intervals fora series of years shows
an upward tendency on the part of Quo
tations during the last quarter of 1896.
Advances during the last quarter of 1896
were conspicuous among most of the lead
ing cereals, for live stock, meats,- dairy
products, Sqme vegetables, hides, leather,
wools, various grades of iron, copper,
lead, brick, glass and spruce lumber.
Prices this week show advances for
leather, pork,, lard, petroleum and cot
ton while decreases are reported In
prices of hides, wheat, corn, coffee, pig
iron and steel billets? Heavy stocks con
tinue to depress cojtoja goods. Iron and
steel have not met.tha increased demand
expected, while sugar and coffee prices
hav? been affected by competition among
leading dealers...
There have been 478 business failures
in the United States-this week compared
with 488 last week, 412 in the second week
of JatSUary .last year, 378 in the like week
of 1896,-apd aacompared with 404 In the
corre*pbMdtng period of 1894.
VERY NEARLY SUCCESSFUL.
Pensacola, FIq., jJaq* 16-—Mrs. Weber,
wife «f«Theo. Weber, an artist of con
siderable local note, attempted suicide
a few minutes after noon today while
temporarily Insane. She cut both wflsts
with a knife and scissors and not satis
fied at the progress thus made, she toek
a hatchet And hacked ]Qie top of her head
until Vsba became jinconscious. Mr.
* V
Weber first discovered her, and physi
cians were summoned. It was found that
there were numerous fractures of the
outer part of the skull, and a number of
pices have been removed. The Inner
lining' of the skull remains whole, and
she may recover. This is her second at
tempt at suicide, she having attempted to
destroy herself six years ago.
NORTH CAROLINA POPS,
At a Caucus, Nominate an Opponent to
Pritchard for Senator.
Raleigh, N. C., Jan. 15.—The populist
caucus at midnight nominated Dr. Cyrus
Thompson for senator on the second bal
lot. Thompson, Dockery, Mott, Hlleman
and Guthrie were voted for on the first
ballot.
On the second ballot all except the first
two were withdrawn.
Thompson and Dockery received 23 and
9 votes respectively. Senator Parker, of
Randolph, one of the bolters, returned to
the caucus last night. It is understood
that he will vote for the nominee. It
Is not believed that Hardison who went
into the eoucus with Parker, will desert
Pritchard.
The situation virtually remains un
changed. Fourteen populist votes In ad
dition to the republican vote will elect
Pritchard. It is claimed that at least
eighteen will stand by him to the last.
At this hour there appears to be no reason
for changing the prediction that Pritch
ard will be his own successor.
THREE KILLED.
Macon, Ga., Jan. 15.—A special to the
Telegraph from Americus, Ga., says a
Georgia and Alabama freight train was
wrecked near Pittsbore, Ala., last night.
Several cars were derailed, though the
loss and damage were not considerable.
It Is reported that two white tramps
were Instantly killed and a third one
will die of his injuries. A broken brake
beam is supposed to have caused the
wreck. None of the train crew was in
jured.
THE WORLD MUST PAY.
Brooklyn. N. Y., Jan. 15.—The jury in
the suit of Joseph A. Trapp against the
New York World for libel, in which dam
ages were laid at $100,000, today rendered
a verdict of $6,250. The case was tried
before Judge Keogh, In the supreme
court. Trapp was a Juror In the case
of John McKane. the former chief of the
Coney Island police, when the latter was
convicted of election frauds. After Mc
Kane's conviction the paper charged,
Trapp with having tried tobribethe other
Jurors.
A FINANCIAL DEBATE
May Be Precipitated Over a Resolution
of the Republican Caucus Provid
ing For a Monetary Conference.
Washington, Jan. 15.—The republican
senatorial caucus this morning agreed to
present to the senate the resolution pro
viding for an International monetary
conference in the following form:
An act to provide for the representa
tion of the United States by commission
ers at any international monetary com
ferenc to be hereafter called.
Be it enacted by the senate and house
of representatives of the United States
of America, in congress assembled, that
whenever, after March 4, 1897, the presi
dent of the United States shall determ
ine that the United States should be rep
resented at any international confer
ence called by the United States or any
other country with a view of securing
by international agreement a fixity of
relative value between gold and silver
as money by means of a common ratio
between those metals, with free mintage
at such ratio, he is hereby authorized
to appoint five or more commissioners
to such international conference and for
compensation of such commission and
for all reasonable expenses connected
therewith, to be approved by the secre
tary of state, including the proportion to
be paid by the United States of the Joint
expenses of any such conference, the sum
of $100,000 or so much thereof, as may be
necessary, is hereby appropriated.
The resolution will be reported to the
senate on Monday by Mr. Chandler, who,
In the absence of Mr. Wolcott, chairman,
is acting in his behalf.
Some of the other democrats urge that
the word "unlimited” should be added
and there will be opposition from a few
senators by reason of the failure to use
it. It is not thought, however, that the
passage of the resolution will be endan
gered. A careful canvass of the senate,
shows that there is a general willing
ness to permit the resolution to be adopt
ed without much debate. The silver
men will take little part in the discussion
unless the gold men precipitate it. In
that event, several1 silver senators,
among them Mr. Cockrell, of Missouri,
will speak to the resolution and the
chances are that under such conditions
a financial debate may be injected into
the proceedings of the senate.
CONDITION AT OCALA.
General Merchants Fall Because of the
Bank Doln^- Likewise—Another
Bank on Tapis.
Ocala, Fla., Jan. 15.—Messrs. S. R. Bird
sey & Co., dealers In hardware, groceries
and crockery, have made an assignment
to Samuel Blrdsey, son of the senior
member of the firm, which Is composed
of S. R. and his oldest eon, Albert H.
Blrdsey. They have been In business for
the past eight years and were leading
wholesale and retail merchants. They
stood well and did a good business and
were very popular with the trade. The
bank failure Is the Immediate cause of
their troubles, S. R. Blrdsey being a di
rector. Mr. Blrdsey feels assured If time
Is given him, he can pay dollar for dollar,
as the assets are largely In excess of lia
bilities. They carry a stock of about
20,000.
A. A. Riche, the promoter of the Com
pagnie Generate Dispatch Phosphates de
la Florida, incorporated under state laws
with a cash capital of a million dollars,
with mines in operation at Newberry and
Trenton, Aluca county, will take steps
Immediately to organize a new bank at
Ocala with ample capital.
There are no new developments In the
bank failure, except that It catches the
town and county heavily. The old coun
ty treasurer, John W. Stephens, had a
settlement and proposed to turn over the
funds in his possession, about $4,000, to A.
R. Griffin, the new official, and tendered
him a check, which he refused, demand
ing the cash, and it was not forthcoming.
The old treasurer's bondsmen are bank
official?. The school board had inside of
a month, borrowed $1,600 through the
bank, of the state treasurer at 2>4 per
cent, a year, which money was to pass
through the county treasurer’s hands.
Over half of t^ls amount was in the
treasdrerls keeping. The bank had about
$9,000 of the city's money and $500 of the
sinking funds, without security and fully
$4,000 of tax money. President McCon
nell. of the closed bank, is sick In Ne»
York.
MIBUCKLES VS, HAVEMEYER
The Kings of Coffee and Sugar
Preparing
FOR A FIGHT TO THE FINISH
Ground Broken for a Sugar Refiner^ Six
Thousand Barrels Capacit' ^
5
-O
TO SE READY FOR WORK AUGUST
Original Intentions of the ! Okies Quin
tupled— Havemeyer Wf .£7,uadruple
the Capacity of His t '* - -Who
Will Be the Sueifrer ?
Brooklyn, N. T., Jan. 15.—Ground was ■
broken today for the Arbuckle sugar re
finery, in this city, on the lot adjoin
ing the Arbuckle coffee plant. It is the
intention of the Arbuckles to push the
erection of the building with all possi
ble speed. To this end, day and night
gangs will be employed, and the plant
may be in operation by next August.
The building will cover the block bound
ed by John, Jay and Pearl streets and
river. The refinery will have a capacity
of 6,000 barrels per day. The increase
from a capcity of 1,200 barrels, which was
originally fixed by the Arbuckles, has
been made necessary by the aggressively
antagonistic attitude of the sugar trust.
NOW FOR A HOT FIGHT.
Toledo, O., Jan. 15.—H. O. Havemeyer,
the sugar king, accompanied by his right
hand man in the present coffee war, Her
man Sleleken. arrived in this city to
day, and, according to the statement
made by them, the sugar trust intends to
change its tactics in the fight being
waged against Arbuckle Brothers. Sle
lieken announced that the plant of the
Woolson Spice company would be quad
rupled; that an immense sum of money
would be expended upon it, and that the
tnust would become Arbuckle’s greatest
rival in the coffee business.
TO COMMEMORATE THE DAY.
Sacramento, Cal., Jan. 15.—Gov. Budd
today issued a proclamation declaring
tomorrow.a legal holiday to celebrate the
defeat of the Pacific railroad funding bill
in the house of representatives.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Jan. 15.—Warm weather
and a fast track marked the sport to
day. Three favorites won and the pub
lic divided the spoils with the books.
Jockey F. Morris, on account of the in
terference of his father, with his mounts,
has been, suspended by the officials.
Summaries:
First Race—Selling, seven furlongs.
Ban Johnson, 105 (Morse), 10 to 1, won;
Campania, second; Montell, third. Time,
1:29%.
Second Race—For 3-year-olds, six fur
longs. Miss Verne, 102 (T. Burns), 8 to
1, won; Miss Murphy, second; Lott, third.
Time, 1:15.
Third Race—Selling, mile and a fur
long. Countess Irma, 105, (Scherrer), 4
to 6, won; Bridgeton, second; Cotton
King, third. Time, 1:56.
Fourth Race—Handicap, seven fur
longs. Necedah, 96 (Everett), 2 to 1, won;
Viscount, second; Lonely, third. Time,
1:28%.
Fifth Race—Selling, six furlongs. Et
tarre, 104 (J. Hill), even, won; Spring
time, second; Parasang, third. Time,
1:15%.
Sixth Race—Selling, six furlongs. Pisa,
102 (Dorsey), 6 to 1, won; Tommy Rutter,
second; Stark, third. Time, 1:16.
TODAY'S ENTRIES.
New Orleans, Jan. 15.—Today’s entries
are as follows:
First Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
purse. Sim W., 97; Irish Lady, 102; Kath
erine, 105; R. Q. Ban, 110; Senator Mor
rill, 110; Alamo, 114; Laureate, 119; Imp.
Paladin, 122.
Second Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
handicap. Graofln, 91; Alvin W., 112;
Emil Henderson, 96; Sugar Cane, 92;
Gaston, 101; Seelbach, 98; Princess Bon
nie, 90; Hickey, 106; Henrica, 94; Little
Nigger, 98; The Aristocrat, 92.
Third Race—One mile and twenty
yards, selling. Olivia L., 76; Miss Miles,
78; Hondu. 78; Harmony, 93; Helen H.
II. 98; Old Pugh, 98; Booze, 104; Sauterne,
105; Miss Sturgis, 107.
Fourth Race—One mile and' twenty
yards, selling. Kruna, 88; Farmer Leigh,
101; Trilby, 103; Marquise, 103; Terra
Archer, 105; Linnette, 108; Constant, 108;
Van-Brunt, 113.
Fifth Race—One mile, selling. Mamie
G., 101; Victoress, 102; Laura Cotta, 102;
Gailey West, 104; Alto June, 107; Judge
Bullock, 107; Judge Steadman, 108; Tom
Sayre, 109; Ixion, 112.
Sixth Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
selling. Some Hopes, 885; Emily Hender
son, 89; Harry S., 90; Test, 95; Fisher, 95;
Jamboree, 100; Maggie S., 102; Miss Row
ett, 103; Anna Mayes, 103; Timberland,
103; Dorah Wood, 107.
’FRISCO R®SUI/TS.
Oakland, Cal., Jan. 15.—Weather fine;
track fast. Favorites won three races.
First Race—Six furlongs, selling. Ra
cing, 102 (Jones), 2 to 1, won; Modest sec
ond, The Stockibroker third. Time, 1:16%.
Second Race—Mile and one-sixteenth,
selling. Little Bdb, 106 (Hennessey), 40
to 1, won; Llvedale second, Dolyekthlrd.
Time, 1:48%.
Third Race—Seven and a half furlongs'.
Osrlc II., 102 (Thorpe), 7 to 5, won; Arrez
zo second, Bernadillo third. Time, 1:35%.
Fourth Race—One mile, purse. Formal,
109 (W. Martin), 7 to 5, won; Ferrler sec
ond, Peter The Second third. Time,
1:41%.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs. Nelson, 112
(Hennessey), 5 to 2. won; Roadrnnner sec
ond, Flush Ban third. Time, 1:15%.
THE MONTGOMERY
Will Need a New Propeller Blade—Those
Weak Plates.
Washington, Jan. 15.—Commodore 31
card telegraphs the navy department
that the cruiser Montgomery will need
a new propeller blade, which will take a
week to attach, keeping the vessel In
dock until the 31st. The vessel cannot,
therefore, go to Tampa for the coast
defense convention on the 20th land either
the Kajeigh or the Newport will be sent
■there.
Tlie steel board which has been con
sidering the defective material furnished
by the Carnegie company for the battle
ships Kcarsarge and Kentucky, Illinois >
and Alabama, has recommended to Sec
retary Herbert that the ship builders be
permitted to go ahead with work on
those vesels and In case any plate de
velops weakness while being formed to fit
the frames, a thorough test be made of
the group of material to which such plate
belongs when. If no weakness Is shown,
the group may be used, but In case of
tests being satisfactory the entire group
shall be rejected. Secretary Herbert has
approved the suggestion and. pjrticular
ly at Newport News, where most of the
workmen had to be laid off, operations
will be resumed.
HOW BIRD WAS KIDDED.
Douisville, Ky., Jan. 16.—A Dexington
special confirms the report of the killing
of Deputy United States Marshal Bird, In
Breathitt county, yesterday. Bird had
arrested Sam Neace for moonshining,
and was riding to Jackson with Neace
on his horse behind him. Jacob Neace
and Dan Farley, relatives of the prisoner,
overtook the marshal and demanded that
Neace be released. Neace rolled off the
horse and his relatives began firing on
the officer. Bird returned the fire, but
Jacob Neace shot him through the breast,
killing him.
FINANCIAL
Paterson, N. J„ Jan. 15.—Grlmshaw
Bro;.' silk manufacturers of this city and
Reading, Pa., today made a general as
signment of their business in both placea.
Fullerton, Neb., Jan. 15.—The Citizen’s
Btate l>ank, of this city, closed Its doors
this afsernoon. S. H. Penny, president,
and A. M. Dagrange, cashier, say that
depositors will be paid In full. No state
ment of assets or lfabilities will be given
out until the bank examiner has com
pleted his work of checking up.
New York, Jan. 15.—Devlin & Co., cloth
iers, assigned today. Diabilitles es:i
mated at $75,000; assets small.
SILK WEAVERS STRIKE.
Patterson, N. J., Jan. IB.—Two hundred
weavers employed by the Golden Rod
Stlk company, at this place, this morning:
refused to submit to a reduction of wages
and went on a strike. The factory em
ploys 600 people. The strike Is likely to
spread to the many silk mills here, which
employ over 20,000 men, women and boys.
TREASURY DEFICIT.
Washington, Jan. 15.—The treasury de
ficit for the first half of January is $6,
860,963, and for the fiscal year to date
$44,763,360.
THE LEGAL COURTS
Being Too Tardy In Dealing Out Justice
Enraged Georgians Establish a
Court of Inquiry.
Macon, Ga., Jan. IB.—A special to the
Telegraph from Adams Park, Ga., says:
Charles Forsyth and Willis White, the ne
groes who were believed to be the men
near here early this morning. Mrs. Row
land, wife of the postmaster, while rob
bing the postoffice at this place last night,
were run down with dogs and captured
near here early this morning. Mre. Row
land died today from the effects of the
wound and a crowd began to gather for
the purpese of lynching the men.
A report reached Macon late tonight
to the effect that the mob had taken the
men and lynched them, but up to this
time the rumor has not been fully veri
fied.
Adams Park Is In Twiggs county, the
scene of the cold blooded murder by old
Mrs. Nobles and a negro, of her husband.
On account of ihe manner In which legal
technicalities have enabled the perpetra
tors of this crime, one of the most brutal
and horrible in the history of the state,
to escape punishment, has led many con
servative people in the county to publicly
announce a determination to appeal to
Judge Lynch and ignore the legal court
machinery.
LINE TO BE EXTENDED.
Philadelphia, Pa., Jan. 15.—It was
learned today that the Ohio River and
Charleston railroad, which Is controlled
by the Finance arid Investment company,
of this city, will extend its lines from
Blacksburg, S. C., to Gaffney, In the same
state, and the management expect that
the immediate result of the extension will
be a substantial Increase in earnings.
It was explained by a director of the com
pany this afternoon that the building
of the road to Gaffney would make avail
able the valuable water power on the
Broad river, near Blacksburg, the devel
opment of which has been delayed be
cause of the absence of transportation fa
cilities and that the extension will con
nect the Cherokee Falls cotton mills and
those at Gaffney with the main line of the
road, thus giving It considerable new
traffic. There will be an Issue of $600,
000 bonds on the road in North and South
Carolina for the purpose of building cer
tain branches and making extensions.
All the bonds furnishing sufficient funds
for such new work as decided upon have
been underwritten, but the shareholders
will first be given an opportunity to sub
scribe.
INDIA COTTON BARRED
For Fear That It Will Transmit the Bu
bonic Plague.
London, Jan. 15.—The Rome correo
pondent of the Dally News telegraphs
that the prefects of the northern prov
inces of Italy have prohibited the entry
into those provinces of cotton from In
dia, fearing that it will convey the bu
bonic plague that is now ravaging Bcftn
bay and other places In India. This cot
ton Is imported into Italy by way of Ge
noa. As a result of the prohibition many
of t'he operatives of the important fac
tories have been thrown out of work,
•owing to lack of material. The idle op
eratives are very indignant over the ac
tion of the prefects, and it Is feared that
there will be disorders.
uoHBAJasqo Sifup OAp joj siJod
qouoj.1 IB pauiuiop oq U|.w qinoui.tu
uiojj 8-iaauasBBd pjBoq uo ejeioqo
qtlM uiqunN iJodsuB.it aqi jo Jaqi ibajjjb
juaoaj aqi Oi Su(MO 'puBibua ‘qinouiAia
uiojj au]A(jjB siaasaA isu|B3B auijuBJBnb
B pajBpap sBq tuatuujaA03 qauaja aqi
aouajaj
-uoo aqi 0i U0|saqpB J|aqi ua.\jS XpBaj[B
3ABq sjaMod X|s iBqi patBis si n -anSBid
aqi tsu|B3B adojna J» uoiiaaiojd aqi joj
sajnsBatu japisuoa oi 'atuou iB XiqBqojd
‘piaq aq m-w aouajajuoo |Buo|iBUJeiui uu
IBqi paounouuB SBq iuauiUJaAoS aqi
ALL BUT FIVE RESCUED.
Marinette, Wis., Jan. 15.—At 1:30 this
afternoon a strong gale sprung up and
the iced bay suddenly began to move out.
Within ten minutes there was a wide
space between the moving ice and the
shore. A number of fishermen were on
the ice signaling for help. At 2 o'clock
two boats were manned and all except
five of the fishermen were rescued. For
these five the only hope of safety lies
in the fact that they had skates on and
may reach the opposite shore.
LASKER THE WINNER.
Moscow, Jan. 15—Lasker won the sev
enteenth and final game of the chess
match in this city, a queens gambit, de
clined after sixty-five moves early this
morning. The final score was: Lasker
10; Steinitz 2; Drawn 6. . ...BIRMINGHAM
VOLUME £3. BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY,
STATE HERALD.
JANUARY 17, 1897.—TWELVE PAGES,
NUMBER 1.
A REMARKABLE RENCONTRE
Gen. Stephen D. Lee and Col.
Fred D. Grant
MEET FOR A COMMON CAUSE
Representing the Confederate Veterans and
Army of the Tennessee
SEEKING TO PERPETUATE THE NAME
Of Gen. O'. S. Grant in Hie Memorable Cam
paign Around Vicksburg-Financial
Question Again Discussed Before
the Banking Committee.
Washington, Jan. 16.—In the disturbed
condition of affairs in the southern states
which followed the war, a commission
Bent out by President Johnson to investi
gate matters, and of which Gen. J. 3.
Fullerton, of the Ohickamauga park
commission, is now almost the only sur
vivor, found in every southern hotel they
visited Gen. Robert E. Dee’s portrait dis
played in the post of honor in the office.
The one particular exception was Vicks
burg, where the portrait of Lee on the
right was flanked by that of U. S. Grant
on the left. Yesterday this incident was
recalled bya remarkable rencontre which
occurred in the speaker's room at the
capitol.
Col. Fred D. Grant, of New York, son
of the great union general, and Lieut.
Gen. S. D. Lee, of Mississippi, one of
the confederate leaders, met for a com
mon purpose. Grant and Lee are here,
both advocating the perpetuation of the
battlefield on which Grant won his great
est laurels as a strategist and a light
ing soldier.
Col. Grant represented the Army of the
Tennessee, and Gen. Lee represented the
Confederate Veterans’ association. They
are the leaders of a commission having
for its object the purchase of the country
surrounding Vicksburg, to be held by
the federal government in perpetuity so
that future generations may see how the
great federal general maneuvred to cap
ture the Gtbralter of the confederacy.
The park commission represented by
Grant and Lee appeared before the com
mittee on rules, consisting of Speaker
Reed and Messrs. Henderson and Dal
jsell, to plead that a day may be set aside
for the consideration of their bill, making
an appropriation for the preliminary
work of surveying and marking the lines
of battle. As the bill carries an ap
propriation, Speaker Reed would not
make a positive answer, saying that the
matter could not be considered Alone in
its sentimental side.
THE FINANCIAL. QUESTION
Again Discussed Before the House Com
mittee on Banking and Currency.
Washington, Jan. 16.—The house com
mittee on banking and currency gave
hearings today to R. A. Lancaster, a
banker and broker of Richmond, Va.; G.
Bradford, of Boston, and R. B. Ferris,
vice-president of the Bank of New York,
ail of whom had suggestions to make
concerning the solution of the currency
problem.
Mr. Lancaster made a brief statement
of his views, but did not present any
definite plan in the form of a bill to
change existing laws.
Mr. Ferris advocated the passage of a
bill which he explained was chiefly drawn
by himself and had been introduced by
Mr. McClellan, of New York. Mr. Fer
ris said 'his plan was not a new system,
but was amendatory of the present na
tional banking act. Among other fea
tures, the comptroller of the currency
should be authorized to issue notes to
banks up to the par value of their bonds.
To provide for the redemption of the
notes issued under tills act, the secretary
of the treasury should be authorized to
create redemption districts, each bank in
such a district to select a bank in the
central city of such redemption district
to act as its redemption agent and to be
required to keep with this redemption
agent a deposit equal to 6 per cent, of its
outstanding circulation.
Mr. Ferris also argued in favor of per
mitting banks of large capital to estab
lish branches in their various redemp
tion districts, for w’hlch provision was
made in the bill.
Mr. G. Bradford prefaced his remarks
by saying that his banking experience
began in 1851. and that he had been fa
miliar in actual practice with the Suffolk
system and the old state bank system.
For thirty years he had devoted himself
to the study of various problems concern
ing the national finances. He asked how
the people of the United States could be
blamed for going astray on the financial
question when the United States senate
set the example in insisting upon the free
coinage of silver and government bonds
were sold under conditions recently ex
isting. It would not do, he said, to retire
the greenbacks without providing some
thing to take their place, also a panic
might come and the people would de
mand the retirement be stopped, as had
been done before.
Mr. Bradford criticised the Indianapolis
convention for taking no effective steps
toward the solution of the currency
question. He wanted the secretary of
the treasury to come before congress and
tell what he wanted in the line of cur
rency legislation. He thought this would
be the only way to make any progress.
AT THE CAPITAL.
Lawmakers Begin to Arrive for the Sec
ond Half of the Session.
Montgomery, Jan. 16.—(Special.)—The
city is fast.filling up with the lawmakers,
who have come in advance of the meeting
to prepare reports of the special commit
tees, who have been sitting during .the
recess, and the hotel lobbies are lively,
but none of the solons hav anything to
give out yet as to what will be their re
port. Senator Cunnlgham was here last
night, and whilst he would say nothing
about his convict bill now pending in the
legislature which could be converted Into
an Interview by the most diligent report
er, it is believed that his report wili be
satisfactory to all parties Interested in
the convict question.
The new freight depot of the old relia
ble Louisville and Nashville is about com
pleted and will begin receiving freight
on Monday next. This is a magnificent
structure, 600 feet long and 50 feet wide,
built of brick and covered with slate.
There are offices for every department of
the freight business and every conven
ience for speedy handling of freight.
When thp new passenger depot Is com
pleted, Montgomery can boasf of tha fin
est union and freight depot In the south,
and this will be done as soon as possible.
Xhe Montgomery Natltorlum has been
closed for a few clays to do some neces
sary repairs, but is now open to patrons,
and It has been badly missed.
Mrs. Chappel Cory joined her husband
here today and will become one of Monr
gomery’s social favorites, and b; heartily
welcomed.
STEAMER ASHORE.
Norfolk, Va., Jan. 16.—The steamer
Haxby, from Liverpool to Norfolk, con
signed to Barber & Co., to load, went
ashore near Dammock, on the heavy fog
this, morning. The wrecker William Cole
is at work on the vessel, and will proba
bly pull her off tomorrow. She is not
In any Immediate danger. An unknown
steamer, thought to be the TafTa, went
ashore today, two miles north of Wash
woods lifesaving station. S'he is rsstlng
easily and will probably get off tonight
or tomorrow.
SOLD AT AUCTION.
Delaware Breakwater, Del., Jan. 16.—
The steamer Tyrian (British), passed In
the breakwater this morning under tow
of the Bermuda. The Tyrian, when on
a voyage from Halifax for Havana, with
a cargo of potatoes and lish. had her
shaft broken and was towed into Ber
muda November 6, by the steamer Belle
na (British). Her cargo was forwarded
and the Tyrian was sold at auction to
Mr. John D. Hart, of Philadelphia. She
left Bermuda on Jan. 9, for Philadelphia,
In tow of the steamer Bermuda.
WILL RECOGNIZE THEM.
Madrid, Jarr. 16.—The cabinet council
Just held here agreed to recognize the
newly formed federation of the Central
American states of Nicaragua, Salvador
and Guatemala, known as the Greater
Republic of Central America.
GEORGIA REPS. TO ORGANIZE.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 16.—A convention
of McKinley clubs will be held here next
Wednesday to form a state organiza
tion.
TEACHERS’ MEETING.
Review of the Principles and Exercises of
the System of Physical Culture
—Dr. Phillips’ Address.
COURSE IN NEEDLE WORK.
Grade 1.—How to thread a needle; how
to tie a knot in thread; use of thimble;
exercises in running and overhanding.
Grade 2.—Review running and over
handing; hemming, seam-sewing, wide
hems, make a bag; make a pillow slip..
Grade 3.—Review hems; teach gather
ing; plain fells, patching, spool knitting;
make an apron.
Grade 4.—Review fells, bias fells,
French seams, sewing on buttons, cut
stitch, cross-stitch, feather stitch, darn
ing tears and cuts.
Grade 5.—Review work of fourth
grade. Herring-bone stitch, darning
stockings, flannel patching, blind hem
ming.
Grade 6.—Review of fifth grade work.
Button-hole stitch, cut button-hole, tuck
ing, knitting.
The regular monthly meeting of the
city teachers was held at the high school
yesterday morning. Supt. Phillips an
nounced a part of the morning hour
would be devoted to a review of a few
of the fundamental principles and exer
cises of the system of physical culture
used in the public schools. The exercises
were led and directed successively by
Miss Annette Mustin. Miss Loula Brad
ford and Miss Emma Wellman. The sys
tem used in the public schools is the
Pruce system of physical culture and
Delsarte, which was introduced several
years ago, and has proved excellently
adopted to public school work. The
drills given at the teachers’ meetings
serve to instruct the new teachers ahd to
unify the work in the several schools.
After the physical exercise drills, Prin
cipal J. B. Cunningham, of the Paul
Hayne school, presented a paper on “The
Trained Teacher the Best Teacher.”
The address contains much that will be
of interest both to teachers and the pub
llcgenerally. and will be printed In full In
next Tuesday’s State Herald.
Dr. Phillips addressed the teachers on
the subject of moral instruction In
schools. He said that moral instruction
is the most Important subject that can
be brought to the attention of teachers.
On every hand we are confronted with
how moral standards, imperfectly devel
oped conceptions of right and wrong.
Men's actions are prompted by low incen
tives and selfish motives. Men in high
positions are frivolous and indifferent,
and handle the most serious and sacred
questions of life without any apprecia
tion of their responsibility. There is a
woeful lack o inceVily and a want of In
tensity of character. Office is sought
and used for frivolous ends without any
recognition of the responsibility it en
tails. The attitude of our representatives
in the legislature towards questions af
fecting the present and future welfare of
the state is universally an index of their
moral and economic standards, of their
conceptions of right developed by their
special environments. If great reforms
are needed, if gambling Is to be sup
pressed, If a reformatory for youthful
criminals is to be established, if preven
tion of crime is to be sought as well as
its punishment, If a new constitution Is
to be framed. If righteous laws are to
be enacted and morality Is to be regarded
as an attribute of the state as well as of
the Individual, the speediest and most
direct way is perhaps through the proper
education of the children now In the
schools. Let high Ideals be Inculcated,
let high moral principles be implanted,
let a high moral standard be developed
in the schools of today, and the general
assembly of Alabama twenty years hence
may not disappoint the demands of a
moral commonwealth.
The salaries paid to the teachers for the
past month amounted to 33,902.53. This
amount had been borrowed by the board
of education for the purpose from Steiner
Bros., on a note payable within four
months with Interest.
COLORED TEACHERS.
At 2:30 p. m. a meeting of the colored
teachers at the city was held, and after
the payment of the monthly salaries,
Supt. Phillips lectured to them on various
lines of school work, giving specific In
structions regarding the course of study.
Reports from the principals of the several
colored schools Indicated great Improve
ment in the line of Industrial work which
has been inaugurated this year. A com
mittee 'of the teachers under instruction
from Dr. Phillips have systematized the
work in sewing, which is now a regular
branch of instruction, without which no
girl can complete the elementary course.
After this your certificates of proficiency
for the girls include serving. The commit
tee reported the following:
Grade VII. Review work of fifth and
sixth grades. Practice In patching anl
making garments, measuring and cutting
patterns.
In addition to the above course the
girls are given dally lessons In the art
of housekeeping, including cooking, etc.,
but facilities are wanting for the com
plete development of this course.
The boys are taught various lines of
work such as cobbling, basket making,
mat weaving, and chair caning.
This work Is progressing very rapidly
and the pupils are doings good work con
sidering that It has bean Just begun and
that under great difficulties.
SIXTEEN CHILDREN DEAD
And Many Injured in a Burning
Orphans’ Home,
OTHERS ACCOUNTED FOR
Seeking te Save the Little Ones, the Matron
Forgot Her Own,
TILL HER EFFORTS PROVED FUTILE,
And She Was Foroed to Flee With Their
Death Cries Binging in Her Ears—
A Sad Day in Dal
las. Texas.
Dallas, Tex., Jan. 16.—Fire completely
destroyed the Buckner’s orphans’ home
near here early this morning. Sixteen
children were cremated and nine in
jured, three of them fatally.
The search for bodies was completed
this evening. Sixteen corpses were taken
from the ruins.
The following Is the list
OF THE DEAD:
BERTIE BRITTON, 10 years old.
'MARTIN and MILTON BRITTON,
twins, 10 years old.
CARLOS JONES, 6 years old.
WILLIE RICHARDS, 9 years old.
GROVER CEVELAND YARBOR
OUGH, 12 years old.
OSCAR JACKSON, 12 years old.
PRESTON KRIBLER, 10 years old.
WILLIAM MILLER, 7 years old.
VIRGIE NELSON. 9 years old.
EUGENE BLACK, 9 years old.
RICHARD MARKS, 9 years old.
ARTHUR W. EDWARDS, 10 years old.
OSCAR COWARD, 7 years old.
RAY KING, 6 years old.
CHARLES O. BANNON, 13 years old.
INJURED:
DICK RICHARDS, 10 years old, fa
tally.
DANTE GRAY, 6 years old, fatally.
P. CHARLES FRIEND, 10 years old,
fatally.
SADIE BRITTON, 18 years old.
BENNIE WARE, 8 years old.
SAMUEL HENDERSON, 11 years old.
EARLE DOODLE, 7 years old.
JAMES SCOTT, 8 years old.
FRANK CHAFFIN, 7 years old.
All the dead, except one, were burled
this evening in the cemetery of the home.
Rev. Mr. Buckner, manager of the home,
officiated. The home physicians are in
attendance on the Injured. All the farm
ers In the vicinity turned out and assisted
in making coffins, digging graves and
burying the victims. There wore 147 boys
and more than 100 girls in the home. All
are accounted for.
The Are war discovered about midnight.
Mrs. Britton, the boys’ matron, had been
In bed some time when she was awaken
ed by a smell of smoke. She Jumped to
the floor but found it so hot she cohld not
stand on it, and she immediately raised
the cry of fire. The attaches were hasti
ly aroused and sent In all directions to
rouse the children. Such was Mrs. Brit
ton's anxiety for the safety of the in
mates that she forgot her own children
and despite her frantic efforts at rescue,
they were burned to death. The fire is
believed to have originated In the room
under {hat occupied by Mrs. Britton.
Before Mrs. Britton retired for the
night she had the boys clean out and
prepared a stove situated in the room just
under hers, for the morning fire. She
then sent one of the large boys to see If
the work had been properly done. He
reported that everything was all right,
but it Is believed some live coals wera
scattered on the carpet near the stove
which ignited and soon spread to the
woodwork. The building Is of wood and
the fire communicated to Its various
"wings with incredible rapidity. The
children were hastily aroused and hur
ried out of the building wrapped in their
night clothes and bed quilts. All were
badly frightened, «nd when the shrieks
of those who were being cremated In the
roaring mass of flames reached their ears
they became almost unmanageable and
were with difficulty prevented from rush
ing into the fire in an effort at rescue.
The building was soon destroyed, ancj
at daylight the work of searching the
ruins was taken up. All the children
were accounted for by noon. The home
is ten miles from Dallas, and it would
have been Impossible to get aid out In
time had It been requested. The matter
will be Investigated.
MORE SKIRMISHES REPORTED.
With the Usual One-Sided Fatality—
Weyler Gives Orders to Grind.
Havana, Jan. 16.—A summary of the
military operations of the last twenty
four hours, according to official reports
issued today, shows, that the troops are
continuing their skirmishing tactics In
the provinces of Plnar del Rio, Havana,
Matanzas and Santa Clara. The aggre
gate losses of the rebels cannot be ascer
tained, but they left fifty-two of their
dead on the several fields of battle. The
losses of the troops were two officers
and fifteen privates wounded.
Capt.-Gen. Weyler has ordered the be
ginning of grinding In the Plnar del Rio
province and Is organizing forces for the
protection of the men engaged in the
work, to be paid by the owners of the
estates, abolishing the system of payment
by the state. The gathering of the crop
for grinding, according to the order, will
begin within eight days. The scope of
the order will later be extended to In
clude the provinces Of Havana and Ma
tanzas and in the near future, the order
will be put Into effect in the province of
Santa Clara.
TILUMAN WITHDRAWS.
And Gov. “Bob” Taylor Will Be Inducted
Into Office Thursday.
Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 16.—Hon. George
N. Tillman Is out In a card formally
abandoning the contest for the guber
natorial chair. Mr. Tillman assigns as
his chief reason the enactment of the
bond bill, which has passed the legisla
ture and received: executive sanction.
This, bill provides Withe execution of
bond in the sum of.’jji'.OOO by the con
testant when such contest is not made
in “good faith" or for political effect.
Mr. Tillman says it would be useless for
him tp contest the election when the men
Who enaeted this measure would be In
effect t<he court of last resort. His action
Is approved by the leading republicans
of this dlty ana stale.
In view of Mr. Tillman’s withdrawal,
the Inauguration pf (3ov*..elect Robert L/
Taylor T>as been arranged to take, place
on Thursday; The oecaetbn will be with
out flemonfiWatlon ind ultra democratic
in lt» simplicity. \.
PERISHING JW_HUNDREDS
Is the Daily Report From
Plague-Stricken India.
ALL EUROPE IS AROUSED
—
And the Hearts of Royalty Are at last
Opened to the Suffering People.
FAMINE GATHERS ITS- THOUSANDS
Queen Victoria’s Health the Cause of Much
Uneasiness—That Treaty—International
Postal Conference at Washington
Is Eagerly Anticipated.
London, Jan. 16.—(Copyright, 1897, by
the Sun Publishing and Printing Associa
tion.)—The eyes of the European world
are turned this week towards India, each
day's Intelligence from that stricken land
making it more apparent that the great
est tragedy In modern history Is being
enacted there under the double course of
famine and plague. The heart of Europe
has been touched at last and the univer
sal sympathy is perhaps more keen be
cause It Is now tinged with apprehension.
It would not be surprising if within a
month a genuine plague panic should
spread through Christendom. The great
powers show alarm and the news comes
today that Italy has summoned an inter
national conference to meet forthwith at
Rome to consider measures for dealing
with the danger. There is little doubt
that the response of other governments
will be favorable and all the resources of
modern science will be Bpeedily arrayed
against this hideous foe. Reliable in
formation about the real extent of the
plague in Bombay and vicinity is lacking,
and regarding the mortality, it is only
said in general terms that more than
half of those attacked succumb. The
news service of the London press is
strangely inadequate and it is from priv
ate sources that most of the information
comes. The point which most interests
Europeans is whether the awful disease
is likely to flourish in northern latitudes
if Infection should be introduced here, but
no evidence is forthcoming yet. It is
argued by medical men, however, that
If the plague was dangerous in Hong
Kong It will find an equally prolific field
in London and Paris so far as the climate
is concerned. It Is generally admitted
that the plague Is a filth disease, but
there are certain peculiarities connected
with Its spread. Hr. Hankln, a well
known bacteriologist, who is investigat
ing the subject in Bombay, fastens the
responsibility Cor carrying the Infection
upon rats, ants and other Insects. Rats
in houses have the plague; they die and
. are eaten by ants, which carry the germs
into thecrevic.es of the buildings, to water
taps and sinks. Thus the person is dif
fused and cannot be eradicated except by
fire. This explains the efficacy of the
old method of cleansing by conflagration,
and at the same time, the futility of iso
lating the sick as In other Infectious dis
eases. The only thing to do is to remove
the healthy. It is stated in the Dally
Mall dispatches, which are the only ones
worth reading In the London papers, that
large business houses In Bombay are In
fested by rats, have been rendered un
tenable by the ravages of the plague
among those vermin. They die by hun
dreds in the walls and the human occu
pants have been compelled to vacate the
buildings. It is not observed that any
larger animals are subject to the infec
tion.
The French, Austrian and Italian gov
ernments have already taken stringent
measures against the Importation of the
plague, but It can hardly be possible to
escape a series of alarms from this cause
during the next few weeks. The ravages
of the famine In the interior of India are
still far more deadly than the more hor
rible plague at Bombay. The victims of
the plague are perishing by hundreds
dally, but the victims of hunger succumb
by thousands dally. It would be easy to
harrow the hearts of every one possess
ing human sympathy by accounts of the
typical sights experienced In the vast
famine district, but surely the appetite
for horror In all its forms has been satis
fied throughout Christendom during the
past few months. It is sufficient to say
that the gaunt starving millions of In
dia are perishing at a more rapid rate
than any army ever suffered before. The
most deadly engines of destruction de
vised by man. The relief movement Is
now apparently In full operation. The
public conscience and sympathy In this
country , have both been fully aroused.
The response to the appeal Is liberal, but
utterly impossible. The proportion of
givers to the sufferers Is scarcely more
than one 1n a thousand. It will require
the generosity of the whole world tp op
pose a real eheok to the ravages of hun
ger In India.
Such popular Interest as was aroused
early In the week by publication of the
terms of the proposed arbitration treaty
between Great Britain and the United
States seems to have entirely disap
peared. It ts by no means regarded In
Europe as a epoch-making event which
one or two newspapers seemed to class
It. This double calamity and the mas
sacre of half a dozen Englishmen In Be
nin have aroused far deeper publlo con
cern. It Is In diplomatic circles only
that the subject is still alive and It is In
Its bearings upon European polities that
the treaty Is to be considered. The Im
pression prevails that there Is small
chance of the treaty being ratified by the
present senate and It would not be sur
prising If Russia and perhaps other pow
ers should make overtures to the new ad
ministrs tlon which would enable McKln
lar to submit a series of treaties to the
new senate for Joint consideration If
action Is delayed on the present one. The
diplomatic world takes more interest In
the appointment of Count Nuravleff as
Russian foreign minister than In any
other subject. The czar’s selection
came as a great surprise, but it is every
where Interpreted as meaning a steady
and unflinching pursuit of the poilcy fol
lowed by the late Prince Lobanoff. There
Is a difference of opinion thus far whether
Nuravleff will he greater than his office,
as Prince Lobanoff was, or merely an
executive officer of the emperor. His of
fice is undoubtedly the most important In
Europe at the present moment and his
character and antecedents are therefore
being carefully studied in all quarters.
Hi# appointment is popular in France,
but not upon the whole in Germany. Eng
lish opinion of him is unformed, . but
is suspicious. His youth Is a first and
obvious offence to English conservatism.
It Is a pleasure to be able to record the
fact that the Royal academy election
last Thursday bight met the approval of
both the artistic and wider social circles.
The result was h surprise to most per
sons, but the selection of two Americans
and a third whose talent Is thoroughly
Identified with America was purely acci
dental, and served to demonstrate that
the most illustrious institution knows no
hound in its recognition of talent. There
'has not been a voice in criticism of the
aeadomy's action in selecting Mr. Sar
gent as an academician and Messrs.
Shannon and Parsons as asosclates.
The international postal conference at
Washington next May is likely to attract
a larger attendance of government dele
gates than any of Its predecessors, part
ly because it is nearly six years since tha
last conference and partly on account of
some of the European delegates’ determ
ination to obtain a reduction In the mall
rates for letters. The reformers gay that
a thousand million people are Interested
In this question of rates and that the re
form has been too long delayed. The
main argument seems to be that If a par
cel can be sent to any part of the country
in Che Postal union for a franc, It is ex
orbitant to charge a quarter of a franc/
for carrying a small, light letter in Eu-j
rope alone. Efforts have been made tq
induce the newspapers and news agenciel <
to combine to obtain further extension'-"
of the privilege of press telegraph rates
and a reduction of the present rates, but
business rivalries and Jealousies so far
have prevented anything practical being
done.
Efforts have been made this week to
create a scare In regard to the queen’s
health, but without much success. In
quiries elicit the .Information that the
queen is In good bodily health, save oc
casional slight attacks of rheumatism,her
appetite and digestion are good and her
sleep is always natural. But within the
last few months her majesty, who here
tofore has always been cheerful, has been
subject to fits of despondency, caused,
It seems, by the haunting fear that sha
is not to survive this, the crowning year
of her long reign. There is no ground for
alarm, but it is true that the royal
physicians are somewhat perturbed on
account of the contrast to the queen's
customary placid optimism. They hope
that 'her visit to the Riviera, the change
of air and scene will soon put her right,
as they do commoner mortals.
A private letter received from Constan
tinople this week says that In the opinion
of life-long residents there it is certain,
before long, to be an attempt of some
kind of ultra moslem fanatics upon
the European embassies, which, of
course, will precipitate a crisis. The sul
tan himself has reason to entertain the
same fear, and by his orders the most
stringent precautions are being taken.
The same writer mentions as the most
significant of all the portends, the fact
that within the last six months the stock
of every dealer in fire arms and lethal
weapons has generally been cleared out
by eager purchasers. The arms are not
usually bought by Armenians or sober
going Turks. The purchasers have been
fanatical Mussulmen and"*Ireeks, who
evidently anticipate a period when arms
of all kinds will be in demand.
Cardinal Richard, archbishop of Paris,
has again laid the hand of discipline upon
his clergy. Last autumn the report took
t'he form of a circular letter, telling the
clergy that a priest on a bicycle was no
fitting spectacle on the streets of Paris.
Now the Catholic clergy are shut out
from the theater. The archbishop for
bids any priests of the diocease of Paris
to leave his house without wearing a
cassock. Then he says that any clerical
appearing in a box in t'he theater, even
at a matinee, shall be liable to suspen
sion. The circus is not forbidden. That
Is the theater of childhood, and the priest
goes there as the guide of children.
Even the opera and eomedie france.ise
are forbidden. The Figaro points out
that there is one way out of the difficul
ty. Clericals may wear a short cassock
and cover it with a great coat, but that
would be an unworthy subterfuge.
A GOOD SHOWING.
Results of the Bazar For the Benefit of
Temple Emanuel.
The following Is an acknowledgement
of the results achieved by the ladles of
Temple Emanuel at their recent bazaar:
Mrs. J. Bandman, Secretary Bazaar as
sociation, Birmingham, Ala.:
Dear Madam: I beg to acknowledge
■receipt by messenger of your kind favor
of Jan. 15, inclosing check for $1,013.49,
which you, In behalf of the ladles, sent
me to be disposed of by the board of
Temple Emanuel as In their good Judg
ment they may find advisable. Please
permit me for the present to extend to
you and through you to the ladies of
Temple Emanuel my most sincere
thanks. This comes In timely and will
be no little appreciated by us all. You
ladles deserve great credit, for you have
done wonders with the little opportunity
you have had.
Begging you all to accept the assur
ance of my profoundest respect and es
teem, I am, dear madam,
Yours friendly,
BuSTEINER,
President for Congregation Emanuel.
BUTLER'S TACTICS PAIL,
Anri the Result Will Be Pritchard On the
First Ballot.
Raleigh, N. C., Jan. 16.—The Tribune
will print an interview with Cfol. Harry
Skinner, representative in congress, who
is here supporting the candidacy of Sen
ator Pritchard, in which Col. Skinner as
sertsi it as his calm and considerate Judg
ment that Pritchard will be elected on the
first ballot next Tuesday. He declares
that the Pritchard populists are stronger
than they were yesterday, and that there
is absolutely no defection in the republi
can ranks. He claims that there have
been four accessions from the populist
majority caucus besides State Senator
Odom, who declared in writing today
his intention to support Pritchard. On
the other hand two of the "bolters” are
understood to have returned to the ma
jority caucus.
Late last night the majority of the ac
tion issued a manifesto from which the
following is extracted:
"The majority have exhausted all re
sources to bring about harmony and
amicable adjustment of the differences
that exist, but their efforts .have been in
violation."
Col. Skinner characterizes this as an
acknowledgement of defeat. It Is assert
ed that Senator Butler attempted to
bring about a deadlock by Thompson's
candidacy; but the supporters of Pritch
ard say It is impossible to get nn ex
pression of opinion from any of them.
Their course will remain undecided until
they caucus Monday. But as it does not
appear that Thompson can be elected by
their votes, it is probable that they will
nominate a democrat and vote for him.
DEATH S RECORD.
J. J. C. .TONES.
The news was received here yesterday
morning that Mr. J. J. C. Jones, formerly
of this city, had died In West Point,
Miss., after a two weeks’ Illness of pneu
monia.
Mr. Jones had many friends here, who
will regret to learn of his death. For a
time lje was connected with the Age
Herald as a member of Its reportorial
staff, and proved himself thoroughly
competent. Of late he had been engaged
In buying cotton In east Mississippi,
Four months ago Mr. Jones was married
to Miss Carrie Armstrong, of Memphis,
Tenn., and spent a few days hero on
thetr bridal trip with Mr. and Mrs. C. A.
Due, he being a half brother to the lat
ter.
SENTIMENT FROMM SOUL
Expressed by the Comrades of
the Lamented
PEAKER CHAS. F. CRISP
.
IV crs, Irrespective of Party Affiliation,
/ JS Pay Tribute to His Memory.
S'
i WORD GIVEN WAS EVER KEPT,
’ll! _
0
Jaid the Eloquent Henderson, of Iowa—
DeArmond, of Missouri, Spoke Out of
the Ordinary Beaten Path and
Considered the Future.
Washington, Jan. 16.—The house today,
in accordance with an order entered'
some weeks ago, turned aside from the
consideration of public business and lis
tened to eulogies upon the life and serv
ices of the late ex-Speaker Charles F.
Crisp, of Georgia. The occasion was
marked by an unusually large attend
ance of members while the galleries were
filled by auditors who listened with In
terest to the obituary eloquence. Trib
utes were paid to the deceased by Repre
sentatives Turner, Georgia; Henderson,
(rep.) of Iowa; Catchings, (dem.) of Mis
sissippi; Dalzell, (rep.) of Pennsylvania;
Richardson, (dem.) of Tennessee; O. Bart
lett, (dem.) of Florida; McMlllln, (dem.)
of Tennessee; Cummings, (dem.) of New
York; Herman, (rep.) of Oregon; Dear
mond, (dem.) of Missouri; Dinsmore,
(dem.) of Arkansas; Buck, (dem.) of
Lousiana; Cooper, (dem.) of Florida;
Swanson, (dem.) of Virginia; Lacey,
(rep.) of Iowa; Bell, (pop.) of Colorado;
Wheeler, (dem.) of Alabama; Woodward,
(dem.) of North Carolina; Layfon, dem.)
of Ohio; McLaurin, (dem.) of South Caro
lina; McCreary, (dem.) of Kentucky; Wel
lington, (rep.) of Maryland; Tate, (dem.)
of Georgia; Livingston, (dem.) of Geor
dia; Lawson, (dem.) of Georgia; and:
Morse, (rep.) of Massachusetts.
While the eulogies were being deliv
ered Speaker Reed called to the chair
temporarily Mr. Richardson, of Tennes
see, who was speaker pro tern of the
house under the administration of Speak
er Crisp, the first instance in the present
congress that a democrat had been ask
ed to preside over the deliberations of
the house. Before entering upon the
execution of the order of the day, the
house passed two or three private bills.
Mr. Turner was the first speaker. He
briefly sketched the principal events of
Judge Crisp’s life and closed by saying
that there were wide divergencies of
opinion between himself and the late
speaker which made It fit that he should;
not be his eulogist; but that service
should be performed by other members
of the state delegation.
The tribute of Mr. Henderson, (rep.) of
Iowa, expressed the general esteem in
which the' ex-speaker was held. Mr.
nenaerson said:
“My relations with Judge Crisp were
[ somewhat singular. He was the first
member of congress with whom I held
heated debate, and I believe I was the
last with whom he had debated develop
ing some of the feding, so often incident
to our legislative life, but leaving no sear.
Though never Intimate with Judge Crisp
in the sense of comradshlp, we were al
ways good friends, enjoying thoroughly
cordial relations and mutual respect. I
soon learned that his word once given was
sacredly kept. He was a man of high
honor, and self-respect, wras a dominat
ing element in his character. H was
truly a strong, deep and earnest charac
ter. He was never a triller. He was
kind and gentle in his manner, so much
so in ordinary relations that one often
wondered at the high and intense feeling
which at times he was capable of swiftly
reaching. He had in his nature the sun
light arid the shadow, the tempest and the
calm.
“Entering the confederate army as a
mere boy of 16, he soon learned how very
serious a matter life was. It tempered
the good metal until It was capable of
great work, and the boy without a boy
hood was soon a powerful and aggres
sive man. His strength and ability In
vited the confidence of the people, who
soon elevated him step after step until.
In this body, he reached a position of
power second only to that of the chief
executive. When death took him, he
had not yet attained the fullest stature of
his mind. The great Georgian sleeps
after a hard, active, tireless summer's
work, and before the autumn's harvest
had come.”
In concluding his remarks. Judge Dear
mond, of Missouri, departed somewhat
from the beaten path of such discourse,
and considering the future of the depart
ed, saying:
“His spirit, where? Has Its existence
terminated with the existence of the
body? Whatever philosophers may say,
man rebels at the thought. The hope,
some times clung to In desperation, some
times clung to In brightest anticipations,
that there is a hereafter and that men
live in that hereafter, none of us will
give up. The philosopher of ages of
calm reasoning cannot banish it. It
springs as an inheritance of humanity, as
an Instinct on the soul of every being
that breathes. We believe, our hopes,
our affections, all that we hold near and
dear in life admonish us to believe and
constrain us to believe, that our friend
has not perished, but that a higher and a
nobler sphere, this great Intellect, this
great loylng spirit, will nourish and ex
pand and achieve new and perform new
acts of glory and of grace."
At nve minutes of 6, the usual resolu
tions were adopted, and the house ad
journed until Monday at noon.
ONLY ONE MAN MISSING.
Menominee, Mich., Jan. 16.—The fisher
men believed to have been In such dan
gers yesterday, are oil safe, having land
ed on Green Island at the first manifesta
tion of danger. The only one In great
danger was Edward Hoffman, who was
taken off by a boat three, hours after hia
companions had landed. Gus Lund
reached this shore on a cake of Ice.
Theodore Johnson, who started to skate
from here to Sturgeon bay yesterday,
morning, has not been heard from so far
as can be learned, on either shore or on
the Island. The fishermen place their
loss at 300 nets, some of which may be
recovered.
MARK IN A NEW ROLE.
Cleveland, O., Jan. 16.—The Press this
afternoon says: Mark A. Hanna is an
avowed candidate for the United States
seaatorship. He announced hts inten
tion this morning, for the first time, af
ter a long conference with ex-Congress
man H. L. Morey,' of Hamilton. O., who
came to Cleveland In the capacity ot
Foraker’s representative.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1897.
NUMBER 2.
HINA TERRIBLY EKCIIED
Because of Weyler’s Latest Act
of Inhumanity.
MAKES WAR UPON WOMEN
And Has Them Cast Into Prison to Mingle
With Common Felons.
SMALL PD# BECOMES EPIDEMIC
Complete and Eigoroua Censorship Upon
Periodicals- Important Etappenings Sup
pressed — Qomess’s Movement —Two
Victories for the Insurgents.
Key West, Fla., Jan. 18.—The following
Havana advices have been received here:
By order of the civil governor of Puerto
Principe, Ordaz Avecllla, the following
distinguished ladles have been arrested
In that city:
Concepcion Agramonte, widow of Fran
cisco Sanchez Batancourt, secretary of
the treasury in* the last war, and mother
of Benjamin Calixto, Armando, Alfredo
and Eugenio Sanchez Agramonte, all In
the revolution, the latter (Eugenio) being
Gomez’s physician.
Angela Silva De RetJleo, wife of Briga
dier Lope Recieo Loynaz; Maria Aguilar,
sister of Antonio Aguilar Verona, ex-Cu
ban civil governor of Puerto Principe.
It is also rumored that President Cis
nero’s sister and the following prominent
citizens have been arrested:
Jose Morell Y. Xiques, Carlos Aban Y.
Masvidat, Ramon Borea Y. Boza, Al
berto Agramonte Y. Boza, Jose More Y.
Pera, Vicente Ramires Y. Ledesma and
many others.
The city is terribly excited, not only be
cause of these arrests, but because of the
suppression of "El Pueblo." Persons
wishing to leave are unable to do so, the
governor prohibiting their departure.
The condition of the Jail is frightful.
There are no accommodations for ladies,
and those arrested a*re confined with
common criminals.
Gomez was last reported at the ranch
‘La Campana,” near Sanctl Splritus.
There are many rebel movements in that
section and Remodios. Gomez appears to
be making a concentration of rebel forces,
preparatory to a formal advance. The
government is rushing troops to that sec
tion and establishing a strong line on
the borders of Matanzas and Santa Clara
provinces. It Is said Gomez has given
orders to continue the skirmishing policy,
and to press no fights with troops, but
harass them until the dry season is over.
He has also ordered the capture of all
cattlq possible. It appears Gomez will
not come to Havana province yet, know
ing he would be caught {n a trap, as this
section affords no facilities to deploy his
forces. There are no woods or hills, and
besides It is crossed with too many roads,
railroads, towns at a short distance, etc.
Then, too, Weyler would throw on Gomez
the forty or fifty thousand men the cap
tain-general has in hiding behind the
trocha. Gomez knows Weyler's plan and
is too smart to be caught.
The rebels continue active around Ha
vana city. The people of the city have
been without milk for the last four days.
Vegetables are becoming scarce and the
prices are Increasing. The poor people
are suffering thereby.
The condition of things Is becoming
alarming. Smallpox has extended to all
the wards of the city and has assumed
frightful proportions. The death rate Is
47 per cent. Smallpox has been officially
declared epidemic.
The censorship Is more rigorous than
ever. The publication of all news con
cerning the burning of cane fields, farms,
estates, etc., known to be occurring dally
in the western provinces, especially Ha
vana and Mantanzas, is prohibited. The
flames can be seen from the city. Ru
mors of many fights reach the city, but
are never printed. Pressure is exerted
on correspondents of local papers never
to transmit important happenings in the
sections named nor news of rebel move
ments.
A DECIDED VICTORY.
Accorded the Cuban Insurgents In the
United States Court In the Three
Friends Libel Suit.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 18.—The Cu
ban Insurgents won a decided victory In
the United States court this morning
as Judge Locke rendered a decision in
the case of the United States vs. the
steamer Three Friends for violation of
neutrality laws. The libel affirmed that
the Three Friends was "there and then
furnished^ fitted out and armed with one
certain gun or guns, the exact number
being to the United States attorney un
known, and with the munitions of war
thereof, with Intent then and there to
be' employed In the service of certain in
surgents, or persons in the kfland of Cuba
and with the Intent to cruise or commit
hostilities against the subjects, citizens
or property of the king of Spain on the
Island of Cuba.”
To this, the exception of the respond
ents was "that the said libel does not
show that the said vessel was so armed
or fitted or so furnished with the intent
that such vessel should be employed in
the service of any body politic recog
nized or known to the United States as
a body politic."
The answer of the libellant, the United
States government to this exception was
that the law, as set forth in section 5283
of the revised statutes, did not require
that a vessel that was subject to con
demnation for violation of the section
should be employed by anybody recog
nized by or known to the United States
as a body politic. The point made by the
respondent was that the statute contem
plated a condition of war already existing
and that when no war existed there could
be no violation of the statute. The ques
tion was then suggested as fo how the
state of war was to be determined and It.
was argued on behalf of the respondents
that it could come only by action of con
gress, It was far beyond the power of
the Judiciary to determine the fact, In
other words,’ the insurgents must be rec
ognized as belligerents before the statute
could be violated. The court sustained
the exceptions of the respondents and
gave the libellants ten days to file an
amended libel. If a pew libel Is not
filed within that time the fl,006 bond Is
to be cancelled and the vessel released.
----
ANOTHER VICTORY.
Grand Jury Fails to Indict the Leader off
Insurgents at Jacksonville.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 18.—Gen. Em Ho
Nunes, the prime mover In getting out
all expeditions from this country to aid
the Cubans In their struggle for freedom.
has no more to feaf'from the grand Jury
of the United States court for the south
ern district of Florida, for today the
grand Jury, reported that it had failed
to tln<l a true bill against him.
Gen. Nunez had1 been placed under
bond in the sum of $1,000 by Commissioner
Eagan last September on a charge of aid
ing in setting on foot the expedition al
leged1 to have been carried out from the
New Jersey coast by the steamer Laura
da. Several negroes employed on the
steamer were bought by the Spanish spies
and testified against Gen. Nunez at the
(hearing before the commissioner and it
was on their testimony thajt he was held
for the grand Jury. The same negroes,
with five others, appeared before the
grand Jury last Saturday and gave their
testimony. The Jury was evidently not
satisfied with this for today "no true
bill” was the verdict in the case.
For nearly two weeks the grand Jury
has been at work investigating charges of
violations of the neutrality laws against
every person connected with fitting out
the expeditions alleged to have been car
ried from this port on the Three Friends
and Dauntless. The investigation- has
been a farce from beginning to end and
when the grand Jury came into court to
day and made its final report before being
discharged for the term, no mention of
any filibustering cases was made.
The grand Jury reported that no true
bills had-been found against the follow
ing persons, who had been held by United
States commissioners: James Haw
kins, Burrett Raines, Moses Boyd, M. D.
Grate, Willie Ball, Davis Boyd, Samuel
Johnson and Emilio Nunez.
ON SEA AS WELL AS LAND.
—
The Insurgents Prove Effective toy Blow
ing Up a Gunboat With a Torpedo.
Havana, Jan. 18.—Though the insur
gents have no navy they do not hesitate
when the opportunity offers to attack the
Spanish warships. The latest Instance
of this kind occurred yesterday morning
when a Spanish gunboat was sunk by
means of a torpedo and many of her
crew killed. A detachment of rebels had
made an. attack on the forts at Guaimo,
some distance up the Cauto river, prov
ince of Santiago de Cuba, and the Span
ish troops fearing that they would not bei
able to hold out asked for assistance from
Manzanillo on the coast. On Saturday
night the gunboats Centinella and Re
lampago left Manzanillo under orders to
ascend the river and protect the forts.
All went well until the gunboats were
opposite a place called Mango, when the
Relampago struck a torpedo. Instantly
there was a terrific explosion. The hull
of the Relafcpago was torn open and the)
vessel went dowm Those on board of the
ship who were uninjured went Into the
river and swam for the Centinella.
The Centinella’s boats picked up the
survivors under a heavy fire from the
rebels. The Centinella then returned to
Manzanillo. The commander of the
Centinella was seriously wounded.
The official report of the affair stateB
that the commander, second engineer and
three sailors of the Relampago were
killed and her boatswain, pilot and four
sailors wounded. The boatswain of the
Centinella was killed and her pilot, sec
ond engineer, a gunner and six engineers
killed.
Both gunboats were small vessels in
tended principally for river service and
they did not carry large crews.
IN TROUBLE AGAIN.
Another Cabinet Crisis Imminent—Sen
timents Favorable to Cuba.
London, Jan. 18.—A dispatch from
Madrid to the Central News says that
the Tiempo (newspaper) declares that the
condition of affairs which recently
brought the ministry to the verge of a
crisis has been renewed and a crisis is
again imminent. The dispatch also says
tha t in the course of an Interview yester
day Senor Moret, who was minister of
foreign affairs in the cabinet of Senor
Sagasta, said:
“The government of the United States
always works for peace. Cuba ought to
be guaranteed all the conditions of prog
ress.”
Senor Margall, the eminent Spanish
republican leader, is also reported to
have said in an interview: “Peace ought
to be made, not by haggling concessions,
but by granting to Cuba the fullest au
tonomy.”
On the other hand, Senor Crotzard, a
leading royalist, Is credited with having
declared in an interview that"whoever
permits the Spanish sovereignty of Cuba
to be shaken without drawing his sword
is a traitor to his country."
El Liberal published a report of an in
terview with Senor Emijo Casto-lar, the
republican leader, in which he favors a
diplomatic entente with the United States
and the addition of commercial reforms
in the Antilles so as to facilitate the re
lations of these islands with the United
States.
Senor Valera, formerly Spanish minis
ter at Washington, expressed the opin
ion that Spain ought to accept the good
offices of the American government.
WRECKED A TRAIN
And Robbed the Passengers—Ten Span
ish Officers Captured--Traitor Killed.
Havana, Jan. 18.—Official news has
been received here of the wrecking and
plundering of a railway train near this
city on the night of Jan. 16 by bands of
plateadors. The train was the last one
running from Regia, a suburb of Havana,
on the east side of Havana bay, to Guana
baeoa. five miles further east. The rob
bers stopped the train at 10:10 p. m., and
covering the passengers with their guns,
proceeded to rob them of everything of
value they had about them. There were
ten Spanish officers on board the train
who had been on a pleasure trip to the
city and were returning to Guana bacon.
These the robbers made prisoners and
todk away with them. Nine of the offi
cers were subsequently released, but one
of them, a native Cuban, was killed for
being found in, the Spanish service.
GOOD NEWS COMES.
An Envoy Says Gomez Ik Pushing To
ward City of Havana.
Atlanta. Ga., Jan. 18.—Gen. Lacret,
of the revolutionary army of Cuba, has
sent to the United States Lieut.-Col. Eu
genio Varelll, who has placed the facts
in his possession in the hands of Dr. A.
J. Diaz, of this city.
Col. Varelll reports the Cubans to be
in excellent condition. Gen. Lacret is
at present operating in Mantanzas prov
ince, while Gen. Gomez is in Havana,
province, pushing toward the city. The
greatest enthusiasm prevails Among the
people. Col. Varelll’s mission Is to se
cure material aid for Gen. Lacret.
HENDERSON DYNCHED,
Columbus, Miss., Jan. 18 8—Meagre par
ticulars of a lynching which occurred
sixty miles west of here on the Southern
railway Saturday night reached here to
day. The body Is identified as that of
Peter Henderson, the negro sleeping car
porter, who assaulted John Griffin, a
flagman with an ice pick one day last
week. Griffin, though seriously wound
ed, has recovered. There is no clue to
the lynchers.
WANTS ADVANCE COPIES
Peffer Presents a Memorial From
Kansas to That Effect.
. ■ ' it .,«t ; i
RELATIVE TO THE*DECIS!ONS
From the Supreme Court Against the Consti
tutionality of Acts of Congress.
NEW YORK’S NEW CUSTOM HOUSE
Morgan’s Canal Bill Comes Up in the Sen'
ate—He Speaks Two Hours On the
Measure— District of Col
umbia in the House.
Washington, Jan. 18.—In the senate, to
day Mr. Peffer (pop. Kan.), presented a
meznorlal from his stale proposing that
the power oX the supreme court shall be
so limited as to require the court, In case
of an Intended decision against the con
stitutionality of an act of congress, to
furnish congress tvlth the advance copy
of its decision, as In the case of a presi
dential veto, lo affirm the constitutionali
ty of the act.
Senator Murphy’s bill for a new custom
house In Netv York was reported back
favorably and placed on the calendar.
The present custom house site is to be
used, and the limit of cost Is to be $5,000,
000. The building commissioners are to
be Charles N. Taintor, George B. Post,
Hugh J. Grant and James T. Kilbreath.
The bill to provide for a representation
of the United States by commissioners
at any International money conference
was Introduced and is to be taken up to
morrow without reference to a commit
tee. It Is known as Senator Wolcott’s
bill; but In the absence of that senator in
England It was Introduced by Mr.
Chandler, of NeW Hampshire.
The army appropriation bill, appropri
ating over $23,000,000, was passed without
question or remark. There were a few
minor amendments which will probably
be concurred in by the house without
the formality of a conference.
The legislature, executive and judicial,
and the military appropriation bills were
reported and placed on the calendar.
The senate committee added items to
the former bill as passed by the house In
creasing the total by $60,885, and the
military academy bill by $5,000.
House bill to establish railroad bridges
across the Cumberland and Tennessee
rivers in Kentucky, was taken up and
passed.
Mr. Pettigrew, eilverlte of South Da
kota, offered a resolution calling on the
secretary of state for information as to
the doings of the Venezuelan boundary
commission; and to furnish a copy of tha
agreement on the subject between the
United States and Great Britain which
had been already submitted to the gov
ernment of Venezuela. Laid on the
table, Mr. Pettigrew giving notice that
he would call It up tomorrow.
At 2 p. m. when the morning hour
closed a motion was made by Mr. Morgan
to proceed to the consideration of the
Nicaragua canal bill. The motion was
agreed' to: Yeas. 36; nays, 14, as follows:
Aldrich, Allison. Bacon, Brown, Bur
rows, Call, Cameron, Chandler, Cannon,
Clark, Cullom, Davis, Faulkner, Frye,
Oalllnger, Gibson, Gordon, Gorman, Gray,
Hale, Hawley, Hoar. lodge, McBride,
McMillln, Morgan, Peffer, Perkins, Platt,
Proctor. Pugh, Quay, Sherman, Stewart,
Wetmore and White—36.
Nays—Bate, Berry, Blackburn, Caffery,
Chilton, Cockrell, Hill, Mills, Nelson, Pet
tigrew, Turpfe, Vest, Vilas and Walthall
—14.
The bill was read In full and was laid
aside temporarily to permit the trans
action of other business.
Senate bill for an examination and Pur
vey of a water route from the mouth of
the Jetties of Galveston, through ship
channels, and up Buffalo bayou to Hous
ton, Tex., was taken from the calendar
and passed.
The President’s message transmitting
the report of the commission appointed to
Inquire as to the feasibility of construct
ing a canai between the great lakes and
the Atlantic Oce&tl was laid before the
senate and referred to the committee on
commerce. The- Nlearaguan bill was
again- taken up and after a two hours’
speech by Mr. Morgan in support of It,
the senate, at 5:15, adjourned until to
morrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Washington, Jan. 18.—The house spent
the day in the consideration of miscel
laneous matters, business of the DistrWt
of Columbia occupying the greater por
tion of the session. Aside from these
measures of purely local Interest bills
were passed:
To prohibit and punish the sale of
ltquorsrto Indians over whom the interior
department exercises guardianship; ex
tending of two years the time for the
completion of the Kansas, Oklahoma
Central and Southwestern railway
through the Indian Territory and Okla
homa; amending the patent laws along
the lines proposed by the American Bar
association; to ^Ive to the United States
the benefit of devices patented by naval
officers; authorising the, construction of
a bridge across the Rio Grande at El
Paseo, Tex.
An order was agreed to setting aside
tomorrow’s session for the consideration
of private pension bills.
Mr. McCall, of Massachusetts, gave no
tice that he would call up the Yost-Tuck
er election case Wednesday.
At 4:20 o’clock the house adjourned till
tomorrow.
THE iLLINUtS SENATOR.
Republicans Fall to l^ame a Candidate—
Democrats Nominate Altgeld.
Springfield, 111.. Jan. 18.—Falling to
nominate a caiyUdaie*-£or United States
senator the republican caucus, after tak
ing two ballots, adjourned until tomor
row evening,, ,Thetvi}te for adjournment
stood, ayes rt,-n'ajrii 5J., "William E. Ma
son developed the greatest strength, but
was never- nearer than, seventeen votes
of the nomination. The ballot will be
taken In the two Rouses according to the
law at noon tomorrow regardless of the
failure ofc-the caucus.ty .nominate.
Thefcktreus by an overwhelming vote
decided *t6 refuse-W B«en to nominating
speeches and after tne ’dUnd I dates' name
had been presented the. first ballot was
taken. It resulted: Mason, 46; Lorlmer,
89: Hitt l^Hopklns, C-Carr. 10. Allertoo,
1; Adams, 2; Cannon,'JO.,
Second ballot: Macon, 46; Lori me r,
40; Hitt, 16; Hopkins, 6; Carr, 6; Allerton,
1; Adams, 1; Cannon, 11.
The adjournment of the caucus Is con
ceded to be In the iaSereet of the anil
Mason, fgtffces and thf prophesy is made
by the politician#, tuit Mason’s chances
have been materially lessened and that
if Eorimer fails to get tOjgether enough
Mason disintegrated forces, Hitt’s, Can
non's and Hopkii^’s stock will go up.
The fight has now resumed its culmin
ation and the excitement Is at a high
pitch.
The democratic members of the For
tieth general assembly met in caucus to
night and unanimously nominated ex
Gov. John P. Altgeld as their candidate
for United States senator.
THE NEW GOVERNOR
Of South Carolina Inducted Into Office—
Is a Governor of the People.
Columbia, 8. C., Jan. 18.—At noon to
day, in t'he hall of the house of repre
sentatives and in the presence of a vast
audience, composed of all classes of peo
ple, William H. Elierbe, the new Gov
ernor of South Carolina, was inaugurat
ed, the oath being administered by the
chief Justice of the state supreme court.
The lieutenant-governor, Miles B. Me
Sweeney, subsequently was also inau
gurated. In the audience were the young
ladies of the female colleges. Partici
pating in the inaugural procession were
the justices of the state supreme court,
wearing their judicial robes; the cir
cuit Judges, the faculty and students of
the South Carolina college, the state offi
cers and other notables. The historic
mace and sword of state was borne in the
procession. Gov. Ellerbe’s Inaugural was
a must conservative one. Having been
elected by the votes of both factions, he
pledged his word to be the Governor
of the whole people, knowing no faction.
He came out with an earnest plea for
the moral support of the whole people,
in the support and enforcement of the
dispensary law, and said he believed it
the best system of controlling the liquor
traffic. He also made an earnest plea
for higher education by the state.
The address struck a popular chord
and he was generously applauded. To
night the new Governor was tendered a
reception, which was largely attended,
by the retiring chief executive of the
Govenor’s mansion.
FINANCIAL.
NEWPORT, KT„ BANK FAILS. I
Cincinnati, O., Jan. 18.—The First Na-t
tional bank, of Newport, Ky., did not
open its doors this morning. The news
spread rapidly, and soon there was a
crowd of excited depositors assembled in
front of the bank, clamoring for an ex
planation. Officials sent out word that
the bank was solvent, but had been
forced to close for lack of ready money.
Assurances were offered that no one
would lose anything. Depositors, how
ever, refused to be satisfied. Ugly ru
mors found expression, and excitement
grew still greater when it became known
that Comptroller Eckels and a national
bank examiner of Washington were to
be in Newport today. The capital stock
otf the bank is $200,000. John Trapp is
president.
A late and rather startling development
Is that Mr. John Trapp, ex-sheriff of the
county, who was elected president of the
bank a week ago to succeed Dr. Gunkel,
refused to accept the office unless the
bank’s affairs were thoroughly examined.
It seeni3 that C. W. Nagel, who was
elected to succeed Youtzcy as cashier,
had made sufficient investigation himself
to warrant him in warning his friend
Trapp that all was not as it should be.
Therefore the bank has been without a
president for nearly a week.
Every bank in Covington, which ad
joins Newport, had to meet a run today
as best it could on short notice. Citi
zens rushed to their places of deposit
by the hundreds as soon aB they heard
the news that the First National had
not opened its doors in the morning, and
drew their savings. Many heavy depos
itors were among them on the run.
The bank will be reorganized. The de
posits are about $370,000, and depositors
will be paid in full. Director Spinks says
the bank closed because of the reck
lessness of Cashier Youtzey and Di
rector McCrackln.
A LOUISVILLE BANK.
Louisville, Ky., Jan. 18.—The German
National bank, at First and Market
streets, did not open its doors for business
this morning, and1 the announcement was
made that the institution was in the
hands of Bank Examiner James Scott.
The capital stock is $261,500, with a sur
plus of $31,000. J. M. McKnight is presi
dent. , ..
The bank has been in a shaky condi
tion for three years owing to the failure
of the Louisville Deposit bank by which
it lost $75,000 and there are also between
$250,000 and $300,000 worth of law suits
pending, growing out of the bank’s con
nection with the failure. Since the first
of the year $75,000 In deposits lhave been
withdrawn and several days ago Bank
Examiner E. Scott began an investiga
tion. Saturday he wired the result to the
comptroller of the currency and the order
came for the bank to be closed at once.
President McKnight says depositors
Will be paid in full. The bank has on
hand $60,000 in cash. The deposits sub
ject to check are about $206,000. There
are also certificates of deposit for $60,000.
Mr. McKnight hopes to have the bank
reorganized and ready for business in
fifteen days.
A BANK ASSIGNS.
St. Paul, Minn., Jan. 18.—The Minne
sota Savings bank has made an assign
ment to William Blckett, Sr., vice-presi
dent of the defunct Allemanla bank and
father of William Bickett, Jr., president
of the Minnesota Savings bank. Assets
about $25,000; liabilities, $210,000.
; CHARLESTON'S MASS MEETING,
i Charleston, S. C., .Tan. 18—A mass
, meeting of the sympathizers with the
cause of the Cuban patriots was held here
tonight in the Academy of Music, the
largest theater in the city. The place
was packed to overflowing and the wild
est enthusiasm was displayed The
meeting was opened with a prayer for
Cuban success, delivered by Rev. Dr. C.
S. Vender, the pastor of the French Hu
guenot church, and the leading speech of
the evening was made by the Hon. J P.
K. Bryan, one of the ablest lawyers of
the Charleston bar. Resolutions were
in troduced and adopted favoring Cuban
Independence and a recognition of the
belligerency of the patriots. The Messrs.
Valdez are the only two Cubans in
Charleston and the faithful manner in
which they have worked for the cause
of the island was evinced by the rousing
nature of the meeting tonight.
SILVER MINTAGE.
Washington. Jan. 18.—The issue of
standard silver dollars from the mints
and treasury offices for the week ending
Jan. 16, was $247,749; and for the corre
sponding period last year was $233,400.
The shipment of fractional silver coin
■ from Jan. 2 to 16 aggregated $212,000.
The president today nominated Thomas
D. Boyrum, of North Carolina, to toe col
lector of customs for the district of Al
bemarle, N. C., and F. M. Mumford to
be postmaster at St. Franclsville, La.
CONFIRMED AT LAST.
Washington, Jan. 18.—The senate to
dav confirmed the nomination of David
R.’Francis, ot Missouri, to be secretary
of the interior. The action was by com
mon consent, the yeas and nays were not
taken.
Declared By Justice Shiras to be
Unconstitutional.
IT IS NOW NULL AND VOID
As it Conflicts With the Inte/ W ie Commerce
Clause of the Con © iiort.
if
JUSTICE BROWN REf* tS A DISSENT
Says if the Decision B , the Wilson Daw
is Inoperative v Withdraws
a.
Liquor From the Opera
tions of the Clause.
Washington, Jan. 18.—The supreme
court of the United States today decided
that the famous dispensary law of South
Carolina, at least so far as it attempted
to prevent a citizen of the state from
importing into the commonwealth liquor
for hi® own use, was in violation of the
interstate commerce clause of the federal
constitution, and therefore null and
void. •
The opinion of the court was prepared
by Justice Shiras, but in his absence,
owing to indisposition, its conclusions
were announced by Chief Justice Fuller.
The cases at bar were begun In the feder
al court for South Carolina by James
Donald, a citizen of that state, upon the
seizure of a case of California claret, six
bottles of Maryland whisky, and a barrel
of Rochester (N. Y.) beer, by S. M. Gard
ner, M. T. Holly, Sr., E. C. Beach and
James M. Scott, state constables, acting
under "the provisions of the dispensary
law directing the seizure of all the liquoTS
in the hands of any common carrier,
agent or private citizen, not sold by the
state agent, whether imported or other
wise. The trial court gave Donald Judg
ment for $500 in each case, and the con
stables appealed. The cases were argued
last fall, the validity of the entire law
being brought into question. The opinion
of the court stated that the proceedings
were not a suit against the state (which
could not be brought without its con
sent), and that the pleadings of the
record raised questions which gave the
supreme court of the United States Juris
diction of the whole subject. The law
was discussed at great length in the
opinion and many of the authorities cited,
the result being that the Judgment of the
court below in favor of the owner of the
liquors for the reason that the law was
In contravention of the clause of the na
tional constitution regulating commerce
between the states. The opinion conced
ed that the legislature of the state passed
the law In what It believed to be the ex
ercise of its police power and with no in
tention to interfere with the operation
of any federal law or to discriminate
against the products of any other state,
but that Intention, It continued, could
not finally control the determination of
the effect of the law.
Mr. Justice Brewer did not hear the ar
gument and took no part in the deci
sion. Mr. Justice Brown recorded a
vigorous dissent, saying: The effect of
the enactment of the Wilson law seems to
me to withdraw intoxicating liquors from
the operation of the commerce clause of
the constitution, and to permit the traf
fic in them to be regulated in such man
ner as the several states, in the exercise
of their police powers, shall deem best
for the general interests of the public.
The act is not limited in its operation,
as the majority opinion seems to assume,
the state laws forbidding the importa
tion, manufacture and sale of such
liquors, but declares that they shall be
subject, upon their arrival within the
state, to the operation of all it® laws en
acted' in the exercise of Its police powers.
Now, as congress has expressly de
clared that such articles shall, upon their
arrival in the state, become subject to its
laws, to the same extent as if they had
been originally produced there, and, as
the dispensary act does not declare them
contraband as imported liquors, or be
cause they were Imported, but because
they were not bought ffom a state officer
authorized to sell the same, and as the
law-.makes no discrimination in that par
ticular between imported and domestic
liquors, It Is Impossible for me to see
why congress has not directly authorized'
the action that was taken by the state
officers in seizing these liquors.
But, as I understand, the court bases,
to a certain extent, Its opinion of the tin->
constitutionality of this act upon the fact
that the traffic in Intoxicating liquor is
not absolutely prohibited, but is monop
olized by the state Itself, through the
agency of a state commissioner.
Granting that the act gives the state
itself a monopoly of all the traffic In suchl
liquors, it is not a monopoly in an. ordin-i
ary or odious sense of the term, where
one individual or corporation is given thel
right to manufacture or trade which is
not open to others, but a monopoly for the
benefit of the whole people of the state,
the profits of which, if any, are enjoyed
by the whole people; in short, a monopoly
in the same sense in which the postoffice
department and the right to carry the
mails, is a monopoly of the federal gov
ernment.
Quoting Chief Justices Marshall and
Waite upon the necessity and expedi
ency of the courts acting with great del
icacy and hesitation in declaring a stat
ute unconstitutional, Justice Brown con
cluded:
"I regard these words as particularly
applicable to the dealings by this count
with the proceedings of a state legis
lature, and that their right to determine
what is for the best interests of their
people should be carefully respected,
except where it comes in manifest con
flict with the dominant laws. Especially
should everything be avoided which car
ries the suggestion of a vexatious inter
ference with state .action. The mani
fest dangers to the future of the country
which lurke in the Inflexibility of the
federal constitution, can only be averted
by carefully distinguishing between
such laws as concern the Inhabitants
of a particular state, and tre In
tended bonaflde for their welfare, and
such as are a mere subterfuge for an
unlawful discrimination and cannot be
carried into effect without doing Inpal
pable injustice to citizens of other states.
It should not be overlooked in this con
nection that the complaints in this case
emanate from a citizen of South Caro
lina, who seeks to defy the law of his
own state, and puts forward as his ex
cuse the injustice done the citizens of
other states, who make no complaint of
her action In this particular. If a State
cannot prohibit her own citizens from
importing liquors, as well as buying them
at home, the ‘Wilson bill' is set at
ftaught, and the prohibitory laws of the
several states rendered Inoperative in a
vital particular. The fact that these
llqucrs were Imported for complainant's
own use and consumption, lugtaad at fw
Fate, raises no question under the federal
constitution. Both are under the ban
of the statute.
"I am unable to see wherein that sec
tion of the dispensary act of South Caro
lina, which authorized the seizure made
in this case, conflicts in any particular
with the federal constitution.”
RAILROAD EMPLOYES
Petition the Commissioners Not to Cut
Rates on Fertilizer.
Macon, Oa., Jan. 18.—The reduction of
freight rates on fertilizer is viewed with
alarm by railroad employes. It means
a reduction in railroad earnings, and they
fear as a result a reduction in working
time and wages. To avert such an un
foitunate condition, the employes of the
different lines of railroad in George have
prepared an address to the.railroad com
mission, which will be accompanied by
petitions. The address is as follows:
To the Railroad Commission of Georgia:
The undersigned employes of the rail
roads of Georgia, and those who sympa
thize with them, hearing of the proposed
reduction in fertilizer rates, lately under
consideration before your body, desire
most earnestly to present the following
■suggestions against the continuance of
such reduction:
1. The revenues of the railway com
panies are said to be already so much
depleted that the wages of the employes
apparently cannot be fixed at remunera
tive rates. Besides the number out of
employment is as great as the number
engaged in work. The employes and
those with whom they deal are sure to
suffer from the loss of income.
2. The companies are only just recov
ering from their late disasters and begin
ning to get on their feet again and it ap
pears hard that the employes and busi
ness men shall be threatened with the
new complications when they are looking
for better times.
3. The recollection of our sufferings
while the railroads were passing through
the periods of reorganization just ended
is too fresh In our minds to be passed
over.
4. A large part of the people who get
their living from railroads will feel the
reduction in revenues, because any re
duction in revenues from which the pres
ent income is derived (judging the pres
ent by the past) must mean a reduction
of time and of the number employed
and this would nffect more or less every
Interest in the state.
6. The people at large are not inter
ested in the cut on fertilizers, as it 1s
believed that those most concerned—the
farmers—will receive benefit from the
same. Besides, the railroad employes are
in no condition to give a portion of their
wages to the farmer, especially when the
latter are not demanding it. When the
railway employes are prosperous the
farmer is benefited, as railroad employes
are great consumers.
Inasmuch, therefore, as the railroad
commission is intending to stand be
tween the people and the railroads and
do justice to all parties, we most earnest
ly request that the action reducing the
rate may be reconsidered, and the dis
astrous consequences to -the persons most
concerned averted.
THE SEVENTEENTH VICTIM
Of the Buckner Orphans' Home Dies—
Three Others Dying.
Dallas, Tex., Jan. 18.—The seventeenth
victim of the Buckner orphans’ home
died today. He was Danny Grace, 6
years old. His last words were: “Is Fa
ther Buckner burning?”1
Charles Friend, Richard Bumalt and
Charles Brann are expected to die at any
moment. All the other Injured in the
home hospital are reported out of dan
ger. Assistance Is being sent to the home
from all over Texas In the way of money
and general supplies.
FORCED ASHORE.
Norfolk, Va„ Jan. 18.—'The British
steamer Staffa, of Hartlepool, England,
stranded Saturday and lies on her side
on the beach near Cape Henry with her
hold full of water; her bottom knocked
out and the waters flowing over 'her. Capt.
L. Ostergardt and twenty-one sailors
were rescued from her yesterday morni
ing. Capt. Ostergardt states that the
steamer is a total loss and the value of
the vessel and cargo is $120,000. She
was laden with corn and bound from New
Orleans. She encountered heavy fogs
and high winds, and unable to find a
course or keep it if found was forced
ashore at 4:40 o’clock Saturday morning.
CLAIMED FOR DUBOIS.
Boise, Idaho, Jan. 18.—The populist
caucus this morning again switched ta
Claggett. In the legislature the first vote
resulted: Claggett, 24; DuBols, 25; Nel
son, populist, 13. DuBois nven claim
there is little chance of the democrats
and populists coming together and that
ultimately BuBols will receive enough
democratic votes to elect him.
JONES WILL BE RE-ELECTED.
Carson, Nov., Jan. 18.—The legislature
convened this afternoon. Only routine
business was transacted. A caucus of
the members of both branches was held
this evening. Thirty-eight members
were present, and of this number thirty
five voted for Senator John P. Jones.
Mr. Jonea will be elected tomorrow.
DIED AWAY PROM HOME.
Ocala, Jan. 18.—A. G. Chisholm, a
prominent citizen of Atlanta, Ga., drop
ped dead Sunday afternoon of heart fail
ure at Homosassa. He was G2 years of
age. Mr. Chisholm arrived Saturday with
Dr. Potts and F. M. Potts, of Atlanta.
They Intended to spend several weeks
fishing-. The friends started home with
the body this morning.
BRYAN GOES TO HOUSTON.
Chicago, 111., Jan. 18.—William J. Bry
an left this city last night for Houston,
Tex., where he will lecture next Thurs
day evening. Mr. Bryan is accompanied
by his stenographer, and during his trip
to the southern city he will complete the
work on his book.
DONG HAS ACCEPTED.
Washington, Jan. 18.—A private tele
gram from Boston, received this after
noon by a prominetM New England sen
ator, announces authoritatively that ex
Gov. Long, of Massachusetts, has been
tendered and has accepted the secre
taryship of the navy.
COLTtMiBUS, GA., BLAZE.
Columbus, Ga., Jan. 18.—Virgil Peko’s
jewelry store, on Broad street, was com
pletely gutted by fire tonight at 11:30
o'clock. Stanfield Johnson's book store
apjolnlng was damaged by smoke and
water *1,000 [Rankin house narrowly es
caped.
INVITED TO RICHMOND.
• Richmond, Va„ Jan. 18.—Hon. William
J. Brvan has been Invited to deliver the
final address before the Washington and
the Jefferson literary societies of the
University of Virginia. He stays he will
give a definite answer within a month.
BISHOP WIDMER MUCH IMPROVED.
Mobile, Ala.. Jan. 18.—Bishop R. H. Wll
mer has been ill for some thne, but la
today reported much Improved, and hope
Is entertained that his Illness will not
I nriw« fsUl,BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME < 23
BIB MING HAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 189 7.
NUMBER 3.
THE NICARAGUA CANAL BILL'
Bitterly Denounced in the Senate
by Turpie, of Indiana,
EULOGIES ON CHAS. F. CRISP
To Be Delivered in the Senate by Members of
that Body on Monday.
yN USUAL HOUSE PROCEEDINGS
Members Scramble Over Each Other io
Have Private Bills Passed—One Mem
ber Baises a Kick and Threat
ens the Presiding Officer.
Washington, Jan. 19.—The Nicaraguan
canal bill was under consideration before
the senate tor two hours today. At least
that length of time was occupied by Mr.
Turpie (dem. Ind.), in an attack upon the
measure and in denunciation of the Mari
time Canal company, of Nicaragua, which
he characterized as a beggar and a
pariah in any rational financial system;
as an outcast and fugitive from the
financial world, and as totally discredited
In this and every other country.
He is to continue his speech tomorrow,
when the bill will Come up aa the un
finished business.
The legislative appropriation bill was
taken up after the Nicaraguan measure
had been laid aside and was completed
with the exception of provisions in rela
tion to the library of congress, which
went over without action till tomorrow.
Earlier in the day’s proceedings Mr.
Hill (dem. N. Y.), spoke for an hour and
a half on a Joint resolution relating to the
electric subways in the District of Co
lumbia. While it appeared to be a mat
ter of purely local interest, Mr. Hill’s con
tention was that it was a fight between
the United States Electric Light com
pany, which he referred to as the “old
monopoly,” and the Potomac Electric
Light company, owned chiefly in New
York, whose money and property, legally
invested In the District, the joint resolu
tion would confiscate. Mr. Hill occupied
the floor until the close of the morning
hour, when the matter went over without
action.
X lie ITBUIUUUU VILC1CU uy 1UI, muigail
last week as to default In the Pacific Rail
road company and the one offered yester
day by Mr. Pettigrew as to the Venezue
lan and Guiana boundary agreement,
were laid before the senate, but went
over, the first indefinitely and the other
till tomorrow.
Monday next was fixed upon as the
date for the delivery of eulogies on the
late Speaker Crisp.
The senate then at 5:45 adjourned until
tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Washington, Jan. 19.—The house spent
the whole of today's session in commit
tee of the whole considering private pen
sion ibills. Favorable action was taken
upon fifty-two of them, one being the
senate bill to increase to $100 a month
the pension of MaJ.-Gen. Julius H. Stahl.
The first bill called up was for the
relief of Margaret O’Donnell, a nurse in
the United States army. Objection had
been made to the bill when It was last
under consideration, and It was post
poned until a more auspicious time. Upon
the reading of the title Mr. Milnes (rep.
Mich.) announced that since that time
the beneficiary of the bill had died, and
he' therefore moved that the bill do lie
on the table, which was agreed to.
In the course of the afternoon the
army appropriation bill _ was received
from the senate, and proceedings under
the order were suspended long enough
for the house to vote to disagree to the
norm to'a, nmnn^montc and tn UTPP tfl 3
conference thereon. Messrs. Hull (rep.
In.), Parker (rep. N. J.) and McClellan
(dem. N. Y.) were named as conferees.
After spending three hours In passing
upon bills as placed upon the calendar,
Mr. Thomas (rep. iMlch), in charge of
the bills, stated that many members had
told him that they had bills pending
which it was important should be passed
a't this session. For himself he was will
ing to waive objection to members calling'
up bills out of the regular order for the
rest of the day. His motion that mem
bers be permitted thus to call for bills
in which they were interested was agreed
to, and then a most amusing scene oc
curred.
Mr. Willis (rep. Del.) was the next gen
tleman to obtain recognition, and while
the clerk was reading the bill, the steps
leading to the speaker’s chair swarmed
with members urging Chairman Hender
son to favor them. The struggle was
earnest and noisy, and the few members
remaining on the floor laughed at and
applauded their more energetic associ
ates. The hubbub was so great that pro
ceedings had to be suspended until some
thing like order was restored. Progress
under the new order was much slower
than previously, there being half a hun
dred representatives on their feet and
yelling "Mir. Chairman” after each bill
was passed until 'the chairman had made
an election from among them.
For forty-five minutes the house pro
ceeded amid much confusion, when some
thing of a sensation occurred. Mr. Steele
(rep. Ind.), stated that while he recog
nized that many bills were reported from
the committee on invalid pensions pro
posing legislation in behalf of soldiers
or their dependents who were entitled
to special legislation, it was true that
fully ninety per cent, of bills were for
persons no more entitled to it than were
thousands for whom it was not asked, or
if asked, died in the committee room. He
was opposed to the recent order; it was
irregular and unfair, and he protested
against its continuance. He had ap
pealed among the first to the chairman
for recognition, repeating the application
a second and third time, but unsuccess
fully.
Mr. Wood (rep. XU.), resented the re
flections cast upon the committee on in
valid pensions by the gentleman from
Indiana, saying that the house had in
creased the pensions of many claimants
over the amount recommended by the
oommlttee.
Mr. Steele responded that he meant no
reflection on the oommlttee, but believing
that such proceedings were not right, he
should vote against Friday night sessions
in future If this method of obtaining
recognition was to be continued.
Chairman Ile'nderson explained that in
his recognition of members he was en
deavoring to follow the suggestions of the
committee on invalid pensions so as to
reach some cases that demand immediate
action and at the same time to do what
he conceived A. be fair to the democratic
side of the house.
Mr. Steele—Well, the bill I wanted to
call up was for the benefit of a widow
entirely helpless and destitute.
Several Members—Oh. you don't believe
In such legislation? Why do you want
to call it up?
!Mr. Steele moved that the committee
rise, but the rr -tlon was lost. However,
on njotlon of Payne (rep. N. Y.), the
committee voti u to take up the bills in
their order on the calendar.
This restored relative quiet and a few
other bills were acted upon, making a
total of flfty-two for the afternoon.
The committee rose at 5:10. At the
request of Mr. Walker (rep. Penn.), his
minority report upon the contested elec
tion case of Yost vs. Tucker, in favor of
seating Yost, was ordered printed.
At 5:15 the bouse adjourned until to
morrow.
TAKEN TO NEW ORLEANS.
The Three Friends Libel Case Trans
ferred to the Appelate Court.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 19.—Acting un
der instructions from Washington, the
case of the Three Friends, charged with
carrying an armed expedition In violation
of neutrality laws, will be appealed to
the Appellate court in New Orleans dur
ing the next few days.
On account of the importance of the
lssiue involved, District Attorney Clarke
Is confident that the trial in New' Orleans
will be pushed to a speedy settlement.
One important feature of the case
seems to lie In the fact ithat if the appel
late court sustains the decision of Judge
Locke it w'lll necessitate the revision of
this particular statute by congress.
District Attorney Clarke will be as
sisted at New Orleans by Assistant Dis
trict Attorney Gibbons, his law partner.
THE DAUNTLESS LIBEL SUET.
Savannah, Ga„ Jan. 19.—The libel suit
of the United States against the tug
Dauntless came up In the United States
court today, and the district attorney
was directed to properly amend his pe
tition by tomorrow morning1 so that It
would appear to what part of the coun
try the Dauntless is alleged to have gone.
Otherwise, the libel may be dismissed.
ALABAMA’S INFANT CITY.
BIDS FAIR TO BECOME A MONU
MENTAL SUCCESS.
Fruithurstis Future and Pact Told by
J. A. Westerlund, General
Agent There.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 19.—(Special.)—
Mr. J. A. Westerlund, of Frulthurst,
spent Tuesday in the city. Mr. Wester
lund is the general agent of the Ala
bama Fruit Growing and Winery- asso
ciation, and Frulthurst is Alabama's
young and flourishing fruit colony, locat
ed in- Cleburne county. Mr. Westerlund
has been in this state Just two years,
and he has contributed in no small de
gree to the upbuilding and improvement
of -the section which was fortunate
enough to attract his attention. Old
fields and hillsides of Cleburne, unpro
ductive and almost desolate, have, un
der the. magic of his direction and- energy,
been made to blossom like the rose and a
country which a little more than two
years ago was almost uninhabited is now
the site of one of the prettiest modern
towns in the south, filled with cosy cot
tages, the homes of a thrifty and indus
trious population, who see before them
prosperity and comfort at the expendi
ture of the minimum of energy.
“Frulthurst,” said Mr. 'Westerlund, “Is
Alabama’s baby city. It is yet in its
swaddling clothes, but it is a most prom
ising youngster. The first acre of land
which -now composes the Frulthurst colo
ny property was purchased November
26, 1894. The tract contains about 20,
000 acres and contained when bought,
old fields, woodland and some cultivated
land, but of the latter there was not a
great deal and that of not a very high
grade. Its adaptibillty to the fruit cul
ture was seen by Mr. Merrill, and the
tract was divided, after setting apart
a portion for the town tnto vineyards
of ten acres each. I was engaged to pre
sent the situation to the farmers and
fruit growers of the northwest and of
the east and In the first year, notwith
standing the hard times, I succeeded so
well that I sold more than 400 of the vine
viarrlu qnrl nr» tn this tlma thp tntnl anlpci
will aggregate more than 800 vineyards.
"Frulthurst now has a population of
about 1,200, who came from all parts of
the country and from several foreign
countries. The bulk of the people com
ing from other states are from Mlnne^
sota, Wisconsin and Iowa and from the
New England states. Canada is repre
sented by several members of the colony
as well as England, Germany and Swe
den. The people coming from the states
of the northwest are delighted with the
climate. Tlje winter is delightful when
compared wTth the rigors of Minnesota
and Wisconsin winters, and the summers
ard not marked by those periods of
stifling heat which are so frequent in
those states. They are a contented peo
ple, nd the question of returning to their
former homes in the north Is never for
an Instant considered.
“Newcomers from the northern and
western states tell us that nearly half the
population of those states want to come
south, and that very many of them will
do so this year. Frulthurst has an eye
open for them, and will extend them a
hearty welcome.
“Now, all of the 800 vineyards are not
planteds but a large nu'rriber of them are,
and the success which has attended the
fruitgrowers so far satisfies them that
every representation made by the com
pany will be more than fulfilled. During
the year just past Frulthurst manu
fatcured 30,000 gallons of wine, shipped
thirteen oar loads of grapes to various
northern markets, paid out for labor more
than $75,000, constructed ten miles of
new roads, built more than twenty miles
of hog-proof fence, built 125 new houses,
established a rose garden which con
tains more than 200 varieties of the
choicest American and foreign roses and
completed the Frulthurst Inn, which Is
one of the most complete modern hotels
in this or any other southern state. This
Is a pretty good showing for a town not
yet three years old. We have a magnifi
cent free school system and our public
school is attended daily by an average
dally of more than 100 pupils.
“At the Atlanta exposition the exhibi
tion of the products of Frulthurst was
the finest of its kind at the exposition
and It was conceded by all to be the
great attraction of the Alabama exhibit.
Frulthurst will be seen also at Nash
ville. The men behind this enterprise do
not believe in hiding their light under a
bushel, and while they are willing to
help out the state exhibit they have al
ready taken steps to secure space In case
the state cannot give the display as much
room as will be needed to makf a credita
ble display.
“The success of Frulthurst has been
marvellous, but It Is convincing. When
we started out we had to talk up Frult
hurst to everybody, but now the people
are coming In to make Investments with
out solicitation. At first they came only
on excursion days, but now they drop In
any day and a talk with those who have
preceded them usually leads to an In
vestment, and later to moving into our
little town. Thu company gives an abso
lute guarantee to every purchaser of a
ten-acre ylneyard, plants two acres In
standard vines and obligates Itself to re
fund the purchase money to any pur
chaser who may be dissatisfied at the
end of three yeairs."
THAT IMPORTANT DECISION
Handed Down by Justice Shiras
Reviewed.
STATE POLICE POWERS
Brought Into Question, and the Dispensary
Act Declared in Conflict
WITH UNCLE SAM’S CONSTITUTION
The Aot la Not an Inspection Law—The
State as a Monopolist in Liquor
Traffic Is a Novel and In
teresting Subject.
Washington, Jan. 19.—The full text of
the opinion in the case of the South Caro
lina dispensary law, delivered in the su
preme court of the United States yester
day by Chief Justice Fuller, for Justice
S'hiras, was today available for exami
nation. After having disposed of the
question of jurisdiction Justice Shiras
says:
“We are now brought to the more im
portant and difficult question whether
the so-called dispensary law of the state
of South Carolina Is, indeed as to some
or all of its parts, Invalid, as being in
conflict with the constitution of the Unit
ed States and acts of congress made
thereunder. Is that statute a lawful ex
ercise of the police power of the state?"
“The difficulty Is shown in the frequent
and elaborate dissents in many of t'he
PORPK nroapn'f i n or ointllnr nuoctlnnc Qttll
It can be safely said that the differences
of opinion thus manifested have not been
so much upon fundamental principles, as
upon questions of the construction and
meaning of the various state statutes
that have been under consideration."
"The evils attending the vice of in
temperance . in the use of spirituous
liquors are so great that a natural re
luctance is felt in appearing to interfere,
even on constitutional grounds, with any
law whose avowed purpose is to restrict
or prevent the mischief. So long, howev
er, as state legislation continues to re
cognize wines, beer, and spirituous
liquors as articles of lawful consumption
and commerce, so long must continue
the duty of the federal courts to afford
to such use and commerce the same
measures of protection under the con
stitution and laws of the United States
as is given to other articles.”
“It is Important to observe that the
statute before us does not purport to
prohibit either the importation, the
manufacture, the sale or the use of in
toxicating liquors. • * • * « Those
operations are turned over to state func
tionaries, by whom alone, or under
whose direction they are to be carried
on."
Discussing the allegation that the law
was an inspection law, Justice Shiras re
viewed the decisions of the court upon
state inspection statutes to regulate oth
er articles and the opinion concluded:
"In the light of these cases the act
of South Carolina of January 2, 1895,
must, as to those of its provisions which
affect the plaintiff in the present suit,
stand condemned1.
“It is not an inspection law. The pro
hibition of the importation of the wines
and liquors of other states by citizens
of South Carolina for their own use
is made absolute, and does not depend
on the purity or impurity of the articles.
Only the state* functionaries are permit
ted to import into the state, and thus cit
izens who wish to use foreign wines and
liquors are deprived of the exercise of
their own judgment and taste, in the
selection of commodities. To empower a
state chemist to pass upon what the law
calls the ‘alcoholio purity’ of such impor
tations by chemical analysis can scarcely
come within any definition of a reason
"It Is not a law purporting' to forbid
the Importation, manufacture, sale and
use of intoxicating liquors as articles
detrimental to the welfare of the state
and to the health of the inhabitants,
and hence it Is not within the scope and
operation of the act of congress of Au
gust, 1830, That law was not intended to
confer upon any state the power to dis
criminate injuriously against the prod
ucts of other states in articles whose
manufacture and use are not forbidden,
and which are therefore the subjects of
legitimate commerce. The question
whether a given state law is a lawful ex
ercise of the police power is still open,
and must remain open, to this court.
Such a law may forbid entirely the man
ufacture and sale of Intoxicating liquors
and be valid. Or it may provide equal
regulations for the Inspection and sale
of all domestlo and imported liquors and
be valid. But the state control, under
the congressional legislation referred to,
establishes a system which, In effect, dis
criminates between interstate and do
mestic commerce in commodities to make
and use which are admitted to be law
ful.
"It was pressed on us in the argument
that it is not competent for a state, in
the exercise of its police power to mo
nopolize the traffic In intoxicating liquors,
and thus put itself in competition with
the sense of the other states. This phase
of the subject is novel and interesting,
but we do not think it necessary for us
now to consider it. It is sufficient for
the present cases to hold, as we do, that
when a state recognizes the manufacture,
sale and use of intoxicating liquors as
lawful, it cannot discrimlnatfe against the
bringing of such articles in, and import
ing them from other statesrthat such leg
islation is void as a hindrance to Inter
state commerce and an unjust preference
of the products of the enacting state as
against similar products of the other
states.
"There has been filed In the record a
suggestion by the attorney-general of the
state of South -Carolina that, since the
trials of these cases in the court below,
there has been passed by the general as
sembly of that state a further act, ap
proved by th.e Governor dn. March 6, 1896,
which act, it Is submitted, Supersedes and
repeals part of the act which has been
under consideration in these cases, and
we are asked to consider ,tb£,provisions of
the more recent act.
“So far as these actions at law are
concerned it is, of course, dbVlous that
the damages recovered were for acts com
mitted under the alleged authority of the
•act of 1895, and cannot be affected by the
provisions of the act of 1$96, even If the
Invalidities of ffyt:form£r arat Were there
by remedied—raattar ,on> which we ex
press no opinion. * - ~ —
"The Judgmentsof the pl.rcult court are
affirmed.”
CZAR IN GXOEL.LBNT HEALTH.
St. Petersburg^ Jan. 19.—It t* weni'i-offi
clally announced that the health of the
czar is excellent, and the stories of his
aliments are tgUitput foundation.
■M * v*. S*
f
WILD WITH_EXCITEMENT
Are the People of the Dahlon
ega., Ga,, Gold District.
OPTIONS, LIKE HOT CAKES
Are Being Gobbled Up by Wealthy Individuals
and Mills Going Up.
A REPETITION OF CALIFORNIA IN '49
The Old-Time Mines Are Being Reopened
And Immense Fan-Outs Reported
Veins of Unusual Size Be
ing Opened Up.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 19.—A special to the
Evening Constitution, from Dahlonoga,
Ga., says: The gold fever is on here
and it Is running higher every day. Old
prospectors from Cripple Creek and
South Africa are pouring in and capital
ists are taking options as fast a^ they
can obtain them. There is no staking
claims here, as the property its all held
under title. One hundred mines are be
ing developed' within a radius of two
miles of this town, where a United
States mint was located before the war.
That mint, by the way, coined $26,000,000
in gold, but the discovery of the Cali
fornia field and the war broke up min
ing here, except in a small way, and the
mint was abandoned. In the old days
the mining in this field was all dome by
crude methods and more gold was lost
than was saved. Nothing but surface
ore was worked, as at a depth of about
forty feet sulphurates were encountered
and the amalgan plates would not catch
Recently Mr. A. French, of Pittsburg,
Pa., the largest steel spring manufactur
er in the world, has demonstrated that
t'he chlorlnationi process Is an economi
cal way of treating these ores, and as
says of the tailings from the old mills
show from $i!5 to $100 per ton value,
which has been allowed to escape. The
old mines are being opened and assays
from shafts 100 feet deep give values
runnlg from $25 up. Bets, the Philadel
phia brewer, and Christian Wahl, of Mil-*
waukee, have obtained very rich assays,
the latter having had ore to run as high*
as $1,T00 to the ton. Judge Morris, of Ten
nessee, who Is tunnelling a mountain
near here, struck three rich veins which
run from $29 to $500. AM this ore Is sap
rolite, or partly decomposed and Is easi
ly mined.
The belt Is of great length. The
Creighton mine, on one of these veins,
twenty-five miles southwest of here,
yielded 68,000 penny-weights last year,
and the capacity is said to be doubled.
Pope & Dye at Holly Springs, are said
to have taken out $40,000 in the last few
months, using a ten stamp mill.
Prospectors from South Africa say that
this belt Is full of mines richer than the
famous Robinson mine, and they all say
that this Is destined to be a wonderful
mining camp.
The whole section Is wild with excite
ment because the more that development
work goes on the greater are the re
sults. Veins which are mere ribbons on,
the surface run together at varying
depths and wldemout to ten, fifty and 100
feet with increasing richness as they
go down. One company is being organ
ized to put In a large plant with a 200
stamp mill and another syndicate is get-*
ting ready to put in a 250-stamp mill
with a chlorination plant large enough
to treat all the concentrates from 500
stamps.
U. S. SENATORS.
The Result In the Several States—Some
Unsuccessful Ballots
Yesterday.
Raleigh, N. C., Jan. 19.—The balloting
for senator today resulted:
In the senate—Pritchard, (rep.) 24;
Thompson, (pop.) 18; Daughton, (dem.)
7.
In the house—Pritchard 62; Thompson
24; Daughton 27. Total: Pritchard 86;
Thompson 42; Daughton 34. Pritchard’s
vote Is exactly a majority of both branch
es of the legislature. Tomorrow at noon
the legislature will meet in joint session
to ballot for senator when, If the vote
Is cast as It was today, Pritchard will
be elected.
JONES, OF ARKANSAS, RE-ELECTED
Little Rock, Ark., Jan. 19.—The senate
and house balloted separately at noon for
United States senator with the result
that Senator James K. Jones was re
elected by an overwhelming majority.
The ten populists east their votes for J.
R. Sovereign, and the three republicans
for General Powell Clayton. The joint
sesion wilt meet at noon tomorrow and
elect Senator Jones.
PENROSE IN PENNSYLVANIA.
Harrisburg, Pa., Jan. 19.—The two
(houses of the legislature voted separately
today for United States senator to suc
ceed J. D. Cameron, with the following
result:
Senate—Penrose 42; Black 6.
House—Penrose 168; Black 33; John
Wartamaker 1.
The election will be confirmed In Joint
session tomorrow at noon.
VEST, OF MISSOURI, GOES BACK.
Jefferson City, Mo., Jan. 19.—Both
houses voted separately for United States
senator today. The ballot resulted as
follows:
In the House—Vest, democrat, 86;
Kernes, republican, 35; Jones, populist, 4.
In the Senate—Vest, 19; Kernes, 14.
Tomorrow both houses will meet In
joint session and re-elect Senator Vest.
MASON, OF ILLINOIS.
Springfield. 111., Jan. 19.—At the cau
cus of the Cook county republican mem
bers.of the legislature this evening, Rep
reseptalve Lorlmer withdrew from the
contest for the seat in the United States
senate In favor of ex-Congressman Wil
liam E. Mason, of Chicago. Shortly aft
erwards ‘Mason was nominated by the re
publican caucus.
j HANSBiROUGiH RETURNED.
Bismarck, N. D., Jan. 19.—«. C. Hans
brough was today re-elected United
States senator by a total vote of 68, to
25 for Bentley, pouHst.
Denve ol. Jan. 19.—Senator Henry
>M. Teller was today re-elected United
States senator In both houses of the
general assembly, the vote being non
,L£ER’S WALK-OVER.
partisan and almost unanimous. The
Joint sesion will be held tomorrow, when
It is thought but two votes, If any, will
be cast In opposition to Senator Teller's
re-election.
PLATT, OF NEW YORK.
Albany, N. Y., Jan. 19.—Promptly at 12
o’clock Lieut.-Gov. Woodruff’s gavel fell,
and he announced that the business be
fore the senate was to nominate a United
States senator to succeed Hon. David B.
Hill. The roll was then called and each
senator arose In his seat and announced
hIS choice. When Senator Coffey’s name
was called he announced as his choice
Henry George. Senator Guy was not
present when his name was called, but
came In later and also voted for Henry
George. There were the only deviations
from caucus agreements.
The only absentees were Senators Mey
Nullty, democrat, of Brooklyn, and Grant/
republican. All the republican senator
including Brush and Pavey, voted f
Thomas C. Platt and the remaining dei*T
ocrats voted for David B. Hill. The
clerk announced the result to be 65 for
Thomas C. Platt, 11 for David B. Hill and
2 for George. Lieut.-Gov. Woodruff an
nounced the nominee of the senate for
United States senator to be Hon. Thomas
C. Platt.
The assembly vote on United States
senator taken today was as follows:
Platt, 112; Hill, 31; Henry George, 2. Cain
and Zurn, of Brooklyn, voted for George.
The total vote for senator on joint ballot
at noon tomorrow, according to today’s
roll call In each house, will be: Platt,
147; Hill, 42; George, 4.
KENNEY, OF DELAWARE.
Denver, Del., Jan. 19.—Tho two branch
es of the legislature today voted sepa
rately for United States senator. Rich
ard R. Kenney, the selection of last
night’s democratic caucus, received ail
the votes cast. Kenney is a free silver
man. The four republicans in the sen
ate and one member of the house re
fused to vote. The ’’rump” house voted
for J. Edward Addicks. The "rump”
senate did not meet.
FAIRBANKS SUCCEEDS VOORHEES.
Indianapolis, Ind., Jan. 19.—In the
house and senate today Charles W. Fair
banks was elected United States senator.
D. W. Voorhees was put In nomination
by the democrats, LeRoy Templeton by
the populists, and Fairbanks by the re
publicans. In the house Fairbanks was
severely arraigned by the democrats,
who called 'him a millionaire representa
tive of corporations. The vote in the
house was: Fairbanks 33; Voorhees 16;
Templeton 1. In the senate the same
programme was carried out, Fairbanks
receiving a majority of the votes cast.
Tomorrow at 10 a. m. the house and
senate will meet in Joint session and
another vote will be taken which will
be the final step in electing Fairbanks.
DELEGATES ARRIVING.
To Participate In the Harbor Improve
ment and Coast Defense Convention
at St. Augustine, Fla.
St. Augustine, Fla., Jan. 19.—Delegates
to the harbor Improvement and coast de
fense convention are pouring In on every
train, and the city is full. The conven
tion will be called to order at 11 o’clock
tomorrow by President Fesenden, of the
board of trade. Addresses of welcome
will be made by Gov. Bloxham, for the
state; Mayor Gillette, for* the city, and
Fleming duBlgnon, of Savannah, on be
half of the Plant system. The responses
for the delegates will be made by Gen.
A. G. Smith, of Indiana.
J. H. Fessenden will be temporary
chairman, and Hon. Jeff B. Brown, of
Key West, Is being boomed for perma
nent chairman.
Gov. Bloxham and party arrived to
night. H. M. Flagler and J. R. Parrott
are also here in a private car from Miami.
The United States army Is represented
by Gen. Schofield, Delegate-at-Large
From Florida Col. Mulelr, Lieut. White,
of St. Francis barracks, Capt. T. M.
Woodruff, assistant adjutant-general of
Florida; Lieut. T. P. Freese, Fifth In
fantry, and Capt. Davis, official repre
sentative of Gen. Miles. The navy is
represented by all the officers of the
cruiser Raleigh, which arrived at Port
Tampa today.
Papers on coast defense will be read by
Capt. Ira Harris, Maj. Thomas A. Frye,
of Massachusetts; Capt. T. M. Woodruff
and others.
Discussions will follow and resolutions
will be adopted urging congress to take
immediate action to attain the desired
end.
A series of entertainments and excur
sions have been arranged by the Plant
system. The convention will last till
Friday night.
MONTGOMERY GOSSIP.
Mobile Embrogllo to Be Settled In Short
Order—Committees Ready to Report.
Montgomery, Jan. 19.—(Special.)—The
Hon. George P. Jones, of Lauderdale, and
member of the state executive committee,
Is in the city, to attend the meeting of
the committee on the 20th, cailed> for the
purpose of settling the Mobile primary
election embrogllo. He Is not prepared
to give any opinion as to what will be
the action of the committee. It Is known
here that distinguished counsel have been
employed by both sides to the contro
versy, and a lively and long session is
expected.
Mrs. Dan Green, the wife of one of
Jefferson’s able representatives, is ex
pected in the city to remain during the
se.-slon of the legislature. She will be
the guest of Mrs. Robert P. McDavid, on
Wllkerson street, and will be welcomed
by Montgomery society.
The special committees appointed to sit.
during recess all have representatives
here preparing the reports for the leg
islature, some of which are expected to
be sensational.
The code committee will not probably
be ready to report for a week after the
meeting, as it has so much to do that it
will be impossible to report before that
time; but its work will be almost per
fect, and the codifiers have been of great
service to them.
The mining committee will be ready
to make their report, and from all in
formation obtainable, it will be full of
information, and the legislature can act
intelligently on the bill now pending.
It is thought that the mine owners and
operatives will be satisfied with the re
port.
TWO STEAMERS COLLIDE.
New York, Jan. 19.—1The British
steamer British Queen, from Antwerp for
New York, passed in at Sandy Hook
shortly after noon today. When at the
junction of Swash and Gedney channels
she came into collision with the Atlas
line steamer Alvena, outward bound.
The British Queen anchored and the Al
vena at once put for the bar, where she
now lies on the bottom with only her
masts and part of her upper works visi
ble. Her cargo Is being washed out of
her. Indicating that her huU is badly
damaged. No lives were lost so far as
known.
NEW ELECTRIC CAR LINE.
Pensacola, Fla., Jan. 19.—Ground was
broken at the custom house corner this
morning and work commenced on the
new electric street railway by the Pen
sacola Terminal company. The work
will be pushed as rapidly as possible.
MOBILE BADLY SHAKEN UP
Five Thousand Pounds of Pow
der and Dynamite
’ _
Mtf THE EARTH TREMBLE
o
r.o- Mill Compary's Plant at Magazine Point
* Totally Consumed.
iPARKS IGNITE THE MAGAZINE
/
And a Terrific Explosion, Which Was Felt
Many Miles Away, Shattered HouseB
and Window Olass-Only Two
Casualties—Wires Down.
Jfoblle, Ala., Jan. 19.—About 2 o'clock
this afternoon the planing mill of the
Dixie Mill company, located about five
miles above the city on Mobile river,
caught fire and was totally consumed,
there being no appliances sufficient to
cope with the flames. The Are spread to
the dry kiln and It was also consumed
with a large quantity of lumber, both In
the kilns and on the yards. The saw mill
was saved.
The plant was valued at about $50,000,
and was Insured for about $25,000.
During the progress of the fire this af
ternoon sparks from the mill set fire to
the city magazine, which Is located
across the Louisville and Nashville track
from the mill plant, and about 5 o'clock
residents of this city were startled by a
tremendous explosion, which broke glass
In many houses In the northern part of
the city and as far out as the convent In
Summerville, about nine miles from the
scene of the explosion.
Men at work on the tower of the con
vent were almost shaken off and In some
parts of the city chimneys were shaken
down.
.rti me lime or me explosion mere were
5,000 pounds of powder and 300 pounds of
dynamite stored in the magazine. The
air in the vicinity was filled with flying
bricks and a number of cottages were
blown to pieces by the terrific explosion,
which was distinctly heard at Spring Hill,
seven miles west of the city, and at least
ten or twelve miles from the explosion.
The lateness of the hour at which the ex
plosion occurred and the inaccessibility
of the place after nightfall make it Im
possible tonight to verify all the reports
as to the, casualties to human life.
Mr, Gwin, bookkeeper of the Dixie Mill
company, was slightly hurt by flying
bricks, and Bob Knight, colored, is re
ported to have been dangerously Injured
in the same manner. The injuries to
these two men are the only ones reported
that have been verified, but there are re
ports to the effct that two negro men
were blown to atoms, and that several
others who were engaged in taking goods
to a place of safety from a store about a
block from the magazine at the time
when the explosion occurred, were more
or less dangerously injured.
There are two smaller magazines near
the large one which exploded which are
said to be well filled with explosives, but
in an interview tonight John H. Moore,
keeper of the magazines, said that he did
not apprehend any further danger.
It is said that when tile sparks first
set fire to the roof of the large magazine
that the blaze that followed was seen by
some man who immediately ran about
giving the alarm and warning the people
living in the cottages nearby to flee for
their lives. It Is said that the act of this
man, whose name could not be learned,
saved a number of lives.
Every telegraph wire going north out
of the city was blown down, and all
business for points north has to go by
way of New Orleans. The Louisville and
Nashville track was obstructed 9i the
Are, and all trains arriving since 2 o'clock
have been delayed.
-o
INDIFFERENT TO HIS FATE.
A Quintuple Murderer Talks of Hi9
Clime as of Everyday Occurrence.
New Orleans, Jan. 19.—John Johnson,
the negro who butchered the Cotton1
family of five persons near Tickfaw. Tan
gipahoa parish, in September last, and
who has ever since been confined in the
parish prison in this city, was taken to
Amite City this morning to stand his
Johnson is ome of the most remarka
ble prisoners who was ever confined in
the parish prison. He speaks of his
crime as If it was an everyday occur
rence, and while he does not realize the
enormity of the offense he knows that ho
will be unceremoniously handed for what
he. has done. He is a fair type of the
country negro. He is 18 years old, of a
low order of Intelligence and is very
black. It has been expected that he
would be lynched' the moment 'he wan
taken to Tangipahoa parish. A special
from Amite City to the Dally States
says:
John Johnson, In charge of a deputy
sheriff, arrived here safe and well on.the
9:10 a. m. train. There was no demon
stration on the trip here, though at sev
eral stations crowds were waiting to see
him. A large crowd awaited him here.
He was rushed off to Phe court house,
where he was arraigned. Three lawyers
were appointed 'to defend him. He plead
ed not guilty to the five Indictments for
murder. The cases are assigned for Fri
day. He will remain here until tried.
He implicates a white man.
OVEIR THE VETO.
Washington, Jan. 19.—The house Judi
ciary committee today unanimously
agreed to report again the Cooper bill to
constitute a new division of the eastern
judicial district of Texas, and to pro
vide for holding terms of court at Beau
mont. The bill was vetoed by President
Cleveland last month. The purpose of a
favorable report from the committee is
to give such prestige as may enable it to
pass the house by the constitutional two
thirds majority.
A HEALTH MEASURE.
New Vork. Jan. 19.—The health board
this afternoon passed an amendment to
the sanitary code declaring pulmonary
tuberculosis to be an infectious and com
municable disease, and requiring physi
cians to report all cases coming under
their observation. The board proposes
to treat consumption in the same manner
as cases of diphtheria and other conta
gious diseases of a mild nature. Isolation
will be ordered it the circumstance* re
quire such a course.
FELL UNDER THE WHEELS.
Montlcello, Fla., Jan. 19.—James W.
Harris, of Quitman. Ga., fell from tha
platform at Drifton Friday, and had hia
foot mangled under the car wheels of a
passing train. He died at the Walker
house at this place tonight.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 189 7.
VOLUME 23.
NUMBER 4.
DftVID B.HILL RETIRES
“Me Too” Platt Will Represent
New York.
j. K. JONES, OF ARKANSAS
Chairman of the Democratic National Execu
tive Committee Re-Elected.
A THREE CORNERED FIGHT IN KANSAS
i’ellor of Colorado, Gallinger of New Hamp
shire, Hansbrough of North Dakota
and Ve*t of Missouri Returned—
Still Voting in Utah.
Albany, N. Y„ Jan. 20.—Both houses
of the legislature met in joint session In
the assembly chamber shortly before
noon today and elected Thomas C. Platt,
of Oswego, Tioga county, as United
States senator to succeed David B. Hill.
Mr. Platt received 147 votes; Mr. Hill 42
democratic votes and Henry George 4
democratic votes.
Chester S. Lord, managing editor of
the New York Sun, was chosen a regent
of the university in place of William L.
Bostwlck, deceased.
A DEADLOCK CERTAIN.
Seems Now to Look That Way in the
State of Washington.
Olympia, Wash., Jan. 20.—Three balolts
for United States senator were taken In
joint session of the Washington legisla
ture today with no choice, and but lit
tle change from yesterday. Squira did
not show his expected strength, securing
only two votes.
Judge Turner, free silver republican,
made a gain of three, drawing one vote
from the populists and two from the
democrats. His managers claim tonight
that many votes will flock to Turner to
morrow.
Cline, populist, acquired two additional
votes on the second ballot, which resulted
as follows: Baker 5; Cline IB; Davis 9;
Daniels 12; Denny 26; Squire 2; Turner
21; Wlnsor 9; scattering 10.
From present indications a deadlock
Is almost certain.
IT IS PLATT OF CONNECTICUT.
Hartford, Conn., Jan. 20.—Both houses
of the legislature in joint convention
this noon passed a resolution unanimous
ly declaring O. H. Platt, of Meridian,
elected United States senator for six
years from March 4, 1897.
FAIRBANKS, OF INDIANA.
Indianapolis, Ind., Jan. 20.—At noon to
day both houses of the Indiana legisla
ture met in joint session and took the
final vote for senator. A total vote of
149 was cast, of which Charles W. Fair
banks, republican, received 85; Daniel W.
Voorhees, democrat, 58, and Leroy Tem
pleton, populist, 6.
Fairbanks was declared elected to the
United States senate for six years to suc
ceed Voorhees, and made a speech ac
cepting the honor.
HANSBROUGH, OF NORTH DAKOTA.
Bismarck. N. D„ Jan. 20.—Hansbrough
was formally declared re-elected United
States senator in joint session of the
legislature today.
NO RESULT IN SOUTH DAKOTA.
Pierre, S. D., Jan. 20.—At the joint ses
sion of the South Dakota legislature to
day the vote for United States senator
was:
Kyle 33; Louicks 14; Goodykoontz 6;
Plowman 11; Weeks 3; Kellar 2; Palmer
1; Bower 1; Pickier, republican, 63. The
joint sesion dissolved to meet at noon to
morrow. The silver forces will caucus to
night. <
STILL VOTING IN UTAH.
Salt Lake, Utah, Jan. 20.—Two ballots
were taken In joint session today, but
no election resulted. The vote was:
Thacher 21; Henderson 17; Rawlins 16.
The four populist members voted for
Lawrence, and the three republicans for
Goodwin.
A THREE-CORNERED FIGHT.
Topeka, Kan., Jan. 20.—The populist
senatorial caucus adjourned la9t night
after taking twenty-four ballots. It will
meet again tonight. It now is a three
cornered fight between ex-Congressman
William A. Harris, State Senator L. P.
King and Edward C. Little.
JONES, OF ARKANSAS.
Little Rock, Ark., Jan. 20.—Both houses
met in joint session today to officially
declare the result of yesterday’s ballot
ing for United States senator, with the
following result: James K. Jones, 114; J.
R. Sovereign, 9; Gen. Powell Clayton, 10.
Jones elected.
TELLER SUCCEEDS HIMSELF.
Denver, Col., Jan. 20.—A Joint session
of the two houses of the legislature held
at noon today elected Henry if. Teller to
succeed himself as United States senator.
The vote was: Teller, 92; Judge Allen, 6.
After the vote was taken Senator Teller
appeared before the joint session and ac
cepted the honor in an elaborate speech,
In the course of which he discussed na
tional affairs.
MASON, OF ILLINOIS.
Springfield, 111., Jan. 20.—William E.
Mason was elected United States senator
in joint session of the legislature today.
The vote was: Mason, 125; Altgeld, 77.
TMvided as follows: Senatp. Mason, 37;
Altgeld, 13; house. Mason, 88; Altgeld, 64.
The Joint session adopted unanimously
a resolution introduced by Senator David
T. Little, eulogizing and Indorsing Shel
by M. Cullom tor a cabinet position. Ad
journed until 5 p. m. Monday.
VEST RETURNED.
Jefferson City, Mo., Jan. 20,-Both
branches of the legislature met in joint
session at noon today and George G. Vest,
of Sedalla, was formally re-elected to rep
resent Missouri in the United States sen
ate. Senator Vest was nominated by the
democrats, Richard C. Kerens by the
republicans and O. D. Jones by the popu
lists. The house and senate journals
were then read declaring Senator Vest
elected In accordance with the vote an
nounced yesterday.
CAMERON’S SUCCESSOR.
Harrisburg, Pa., Jan. 20.—In joint ses
sion of the legislature today it was an
nounced by Lleut.-Gov. Lyon that in the
senate the vote for United States senator
yesterday teas: For Penrose, 42; for
Black, 6. And in the house: For Penroje,
168; Black, 32; Wannamaker, 1. He th*u
announced that Mr. Penrose had been
chosen tio succeed Senator Cameron, and
signed the certificate.
THE DOCTOR GOES BACK.
Concord, N. H., Jan. 20.—The legisla
ture In joint session today declared the
election of Dr. Jacob H. Galllnger as
United States senator to succeed him
self.
KENNEY GETS CREDENTIALS.
Wilmington, Del., Jan. 20.—Richard R.
Kenney's certificate of election as Unit
ed States senator was signed by the
speakers and clerks of the legislature
and by Gov. Tunnell this afternoon. Mr.
Kenney will go to Washington in the
morning and present his claim for the
seat now claimed by Mr. Dupont.
PEFFER'S SUCCESSOR.
Topeka, Kan., Jan. 20.—Ex-Congress
man William A. Harris was nominated
United States senator to succeed Wil
liam A. Peffer, by thi? populist caucus to
night on the eleventh ballot.
BREACH CAN’T BE HEALED.
Salem, Ore., Jan. 20.—All attempts to
heal the differences between the Bourne
and Mitchell factions in the assembly
today proved fruitless. The house met
this evening and adjourned until tomor
row for lack of a quorum. There ap
pears to be no prospect of reconelliatjon
tomorrow, although It Is hinted that a
backdown on the part of the Mitchell
faction is .mot improbable.
BEFORE THE COMMITTEE.
Secretary Olney Questioned As to the
Arbitration Treaty.
Washington, Jan. 20.—The senate com
mittee on foreign relations listened to
Secretary Olney for more than an hour
this morning. The members who drew
the general treaty of arbitration between
this government and Great Britain made
on elaborate argument In favor of the
ratification of the treaty as sent to the
senate. Much of the talk about the com
mittee table was of an interlocutory
character and several senators, notably
Morgan and Davis, arked numerous ques
tions of the secretary, intended to gather
from that official his Idea of the scope of
the treaty. The questions propounded in
dicated quite plainly an antagonism to
the text of the convention and the inten
tion of senators to Insist upon Its amend
ment before reporting the Instrument to
the senate. Mr. Olney was questioned
closely as to the general scope of the
treaty and stated that It did not include
the arbitration of the Monroe doctrine
and was so understood by this govern
ment and Great Britain. The matters in
dispute that would come under the pro
visions of the convention were such as
might grow out of treaty rights or under
international law.
At the conclusion of Mr. urney s argu
ment he was asked what objection there
could be to the Insertion of a clause rela
tive to the Monroe doctrine, If both gov
ernments understood the subject alike;
but to this question, it Is understood Mr.
Olney grave no specific answer.
No action was taken arid It Is Intimated
that action cannot possibly be had for
some weeks to come.
In elaborating his statement that the
Monroe doctrine would not come within
the terms of the general treaty of arbi
tration, Mr. Olney told the committee that
It was well understood by the negotiators
of the convention that all questions re
lating to the foreign policy of either gov
ernment were not intended to be Includ
ed in the terms of the treaty. It is un
derstood, however, that when pressed on
the subject of the Nicaraguan canal. Mr.
Olney said that If Great Britain sought
to make an Issue on that subject growing
out of the terms of the existing Clayton
Bulwer treaty, It would probably come
within this general treaty under that
clause which provides for the settlement
of disputes between the two governments
arising "under treaties or otherwise,” the
suggestion was made that a clause be put
In the treaty relative to the elimination
of the Monroe doctrine so there could be
no dispute on that question In the future.
It was also contended that the Isthmus
canal should be reserved In like manner.
So far as can be learned, Mr. Olney
made no impresison on the committee
and it Is today as firmly convinced as ever
that the convention requires radical
amendments before it Is ratified.
In reply to the criticism of the selec
tion of the King of Sweden and Norway
as the umpire, Mr. Olney said that article
X fully provided against any possible
miscarriage of Justice In that It enabled
either party to select another umpire
either for all cases that arise under the
treaty or any particular case. Every
thing that could be done to make the
cdurt absolutely Impartial and Its find
ings just had been accomplished.
Mr. Olney insisted that there was no
ground for the fear that the Monroe doc
trine would be attacked. It had not
been mentioned In the treaty, for to do so
would have been unpolitic and dangerous.
The provisions of article VI., relative to
the method of procedure in territorial
claims gave assurance that all the rights
of this country In any dispute umuld be
carefully guarded. That article stipulat
ed that any award to be final must be
made by a vote of not less than five to
one in a court consisting of three Ameri
can jurists and three English. It could
not be conceived, said Mr. Olney, that two
Americans would join, the English side of
the court on any question unless they
were warranted in so doing by the facts
and the presentation of the case before
the court. A five to one award Mr. Ol
ney said guaranteed absolute fairness and
justice and disarmed all the criticism
that had been directed against the con
vention.
THREATEN TO BURN THE TOWN.
A Kentucky Town In Danger Because of
a Preacher Being Wronged.
Paducah, Ky.. Jan. 20.—The town of
Dycusburg, thirty miles below this city,
Is under guard tonight because of a
threat to fire the place. Saturday night
fifty masked men called at ths country
home of the Rev. William Pox, a Baptist
minister, and ordered him to come out.
Instead he Jumjed out of a back window
and fled to a dense forest. The mob fired
on him several times, but he escaped un
hurt. Fox was charged with paying too
much attention to married women, and
Saturday several prominent citizens of
the town ordered him to leave town. He
refused to go and the raid followed.
Bast night it was reported that members
of Fox's congregation were going to burn
the town in retaliation for the minister’s
treatment. A meeting of the town trus
tees was called this morning and guards
were employed to watch the place to
night.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD.
Washington. D. C., Jan. 20. — Under pre
vision of the act of congress concerning
the Tennessee Centennial celebration.
President Cleveland today designated
Charles W. Dabney, Jr., as chairman of
the government board of the Centennial
exposition. Mr. Dabney Is the assistant
secretary of agriculture, and was chair
man of the government bonrd of the At
lanta exposition.
FLOUR MILD BURNED.
Petersburg Ont., Jan. 20.—The flour
mill and elevator of the Consolidated
Milling eomjJnny was burned at. mid
night last night. Loss, $70,000; Insurance,
$25,000.
JUDGE \m PRESIDED
Murderers of the Cotton Family
Near Amite, La,,
RIDDLED AND HANGED
The Night Was Miserable, but the Mob Was
Determined
AND MADE QUICK WORK OF IT
The Scoundrels Brought Face to B'sco After
Knowing Their Boom and Acknowl
edged the Crime—Wife Mur
derer Meets Same Fat9.
!
Amite City, La., Jan. 20.—Yesterday
evening when, it became known that John
Johnson and Arch Joiner, charged with
the Cotton family murders, would be
lynched, small groups of strangers from
every section of this and adjoining par
ishes commenced to come In and hold
low conversations on the street corners.
Tho night was a most miserable one,
raining and gloomy.
About 9 o’clock there -was perhaps 250
people on the streets, when suddenly
some 150 men on horseback galloped up
to the Jail, and having found the deputy
who had charge, forced him to open the
Jail door and also open the steel cages,
and them took from the cages John John
son and Arch Joiner and Gus Williams,
the latter a negro, charged with murder
ing his wife last summer near Independ
ence. The crowd of men were very quiet
and made no 'hostile demonstrations
other than to get the three negroes. Af
ter procuring their men they held a shorti
consultation and decided’ to hang Wil
liams to an oak tree near a negro church1
on the outer edge of the town.
A rope was quickly adjusted over a
large limb and one end placed around
Williams' neck. Williams was made to
get on a horse and the horse struck wlthl
a whip, Jumping from under Williams.
His neck was not broken, and some men
caught hold of his body and Jerked him
Williams disposed of, the crowd start
ed on the long march to John Cottoni's
house, where the murders were commit
ted. Johnson and Joiner walked a mile
or so, when a wagon was procured and
they rode the rest of the way. The dis
tance traveled was twelve miles through
a heavy rain. There; -were nearly two
hundred In the crowd during the march.
Joiner prayed a deal, but Johnson did
not seem to mind his fate, remaining
quiet most of the way.
After a ride of four hours the Oottoh
residence was reached and alt dismount
ed. Joiner made a break for liberty, but
was captured before he had gone very
far. Joiner and Johnson desired to fight,
and they were permitted to, after which
they were taken Into the house, sepa
rated, and efforts to get a confession
from them were made. Johnson stuck
to his former statement that Arch Joiner
was the man who did the deeds. Joiner
stoutly maintained his innocence, for
awhile, but when finally brought face to
face with Johnson, confessed that he
killed Mrs. Cotton, Mtss Agnes Miller
and Miss Lizzie Miller. A discussion
then arose as to the best way to dispose
of the two self-confessed murderers.
Some were In favor of burning them,
and fires were made for that purpose,
and some say Johnson was actually
pushed In the fire and burnt. Cooler
judgment prevailed and it was finally
decided to hang them, which was done
and their bodies riddled with bullets.
It was Arch Joiner’s earnest request that
he be shot td death, and this was finally
determined on, as was the mode of deafihj
which was to be meted out to Johnson,
but at the last moment after the fire ha<J
been; started it was urged that both be
Cotton residence and executed as above
hung, as Williams had been, and they
were taken a quarter of a mile from the
stated. TT/ey both implicated two other
negroes, but said nothing about a white
man. All is quiet now.
SOUTHERN PROGRESS.
The New Industries Reported in the
South in a Week.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Jan. 20.—No espe
cial change in trade features Is reported
by the Tradesman’s southern corre
spondents, but a large number of idle
manufacturing plants have resumed op
erations since the first of the year, and
this, of course, means an increased de
mand for manufactured products.
The iron and steel trade continues
quiet, though pig iron is considerably
mbre active in the Pittsburg market and
a somewhat better feeling is reported at
Chicago and Louisville. Southern brands
of iron are a little weaker. The export
trade in Alabama iron shows no stgns of
decreasing.
Business in lumber and textiles makes
a fair showing for the season.
The Tradesman reports the most im
portant new Industries for the week as
follows: Brick works at Edenburg, Va.;
the Capital Construction Co., capital.
$100,000, at Alexandria, Va.; a large cot
ton compress at Columbus. Ga.; the
Gainesville and Chattahoochee Power
and Manufacturing Co., capital $60,000,
at /Gainesville, Ga.. and the Sistersville
(W. Va.) Electric Light and Power Co.,
capital, $12,000. The erection of a blast
furnace is contemplated at Covington.
Va.; a $10,000 company will develop py
rites mines near Hot Springs, Ark.; the
Powhatan Oil and Gas Co., capital,
$300,000, has been chartered at Wheeling,
W. Va., the Newberry Phosphate Co.,
capital, $25,000, at Newberry, Fla.; the
Georgia Underwear Co., maximum cap
ital, $100,000, at- Barnesville, Ga., and
$50,000 coffin factories will be erected at
Chattanooga, Tenn., and Tyler, Tex.
AFTER THE RAILROADS.
Austin, Tex.«,ian. 20,—The lower house
of the Texas legislature engaged in a big
row over a bill to prohibit Sunday foot
ball and base"ball. Eloquence flowed
from all sides, and was at fever heat
when the house adjourned till tomorrow,
with the base ball enthusiasts in the lead.
The prlftfthl bill Introduced today was
one red (icing railroad (ai* to 2 cents a
mile ano-Wfe for car berths one
dollar per night of ten. hours each.
SENT 'TO ENGLAND IN IRONS.
Mobile,, All*., Jan. 20.—An authentic
report reaches this city from Rio that
the mate and second mate of the Brit
ish ship George T. Hay, Capt. Spicer,
from Mobilf, August 24, to Rio, at which
port sh# arriyed NovemWfr 22, had been
sent to England In ftonEj charged with
the murder of a sailor,, while on the
voyage. No details are ,'glven as to the
killing or the cause th#jn[of.
TREATED AS THEIR GUESTS
Were the Spanish Officers By
Their Captors,
iWERE NOT WANTED BY THEM
The- Insurgents Were After the Assassin Fon
deviela Who is Badly Wanted.
HENRY DELGADO DIED IN A HOSPITAL
Olnoy Delayed the Terminus of the War By
Belegating the Matter to McKinley’s
Administration—King Alfonso's .
Birthday to Be Observed.
Key West, Fla., Jan. 20.—Pasesmgera
by the steamer Olivette tonight report
that the insurgents under Arranguen
last Saturday night stopped the train
bqund from Ragla to Guanabacoa and
made prisoners of seventeen Spanish oifi
, cials, one of whom was a Cuban. They
• carried them to Jaruco, where they hung
the Cuban, and after three days liberated
the Spaniards and sent them to Guana
bacoa. The Spaniards are loud in praise
of the treatment accorded them by their
caiptors, who, they claimed, treated them
as gueslts and not as prisoners. The in
surgents were on the lookout for Gen.
Fondevlela, the assassin, who was re
ported to be a passenger on the train.
They were, however, disappointed, as he
had passed the day before. The insur
gents will make short Shift of this offi
cer if he should fall into their hands, on
account of the many murders commit
ted recently in Guanabacoa.
Weyler left Havana yesterday to join
the Spanish column operating near Ha
vana.
Eighty-five paclflcos were made pris
oners in Guanabacoa yesterday.
HENRY 'DELGADO DEAD.
The New YorK Correspondent Dies In a
Spanish Hospital.
Havana, Jan. 20.—Henry Delgado the
correspondent of a New York paper, who
was arrested some time ago on the charge
of being a rebel officer, and who had
been lying 111 In the San Ambrosia hospi
tal, here, ever since he was brought to
this city, died this morning.
His body was ordered to be held at the
disposal of United States Consul-Gen
eral Lee, who immediately cabled the an
nouncement of bis death to Washington
and requested the authorities to notify
tlie family of the dead man and ascertain
If they wished his body to be sent to t'he
United States. No answer had been re
ot lved by the consul-general up to this
afternoon regarding the wishes of the
funnily.
-o-—
ELEVENTH ANNIVERSARY
Of the Birth of Alfonzo to Be Observed
by Spaniards In Cuba.
Havana, Jan. 20—The eleventh anni
versary of the birth of King Alfonzo will
be celebrated hereon the 23d instant. Or
ders have been received by Capt.-Gen.
Weyler from the government at Madrid
to review the cases of the political pris
oners now In custody in the Havana and
Dinar del Rio provinces, and to grant
a provisional release to all those who are
held on charges of minor Importance and
are not connected with the revolution in
Cuba.
OLNEY DELAYED THE FINALE.
It Bested 1n His Power to End the Cruel
War Now Being Waged.
London^ Jan. 20—The Daily News to
morrow will publish a dispatch from
Paris saying it is reported there that
Senor Canovas Del Castillo, the Spanish
premier, has stated to his friends thht if
Gen. Weyler does not succeed in crush
ing the revolution in Cuba by the time
the rainy season sets in, he (Canovas)
will resign.
The writer of the dispatch asserts that
negotiations were proceeding between
the governments at Madrid and Washing
ton with a view of settling the trouble in
Cuba and that Prime Minister Canovas
was preparing to announce that the war
in the island was ended, when the
premier was surprised and dismayed by
the receipt last week of the information
from Washington that Secretary Olney
had not time to settle the Cuban question
and would relegate it to the administra
tion of President-elect McKinley.
THE TRIAL POSTPONED.
Dauntless Filibustering Case Goes Over
Until the First of April.
Savannah, Ga., Jan. 20.—The trial of
the Dauntless case, In which the steamer
Dauntless of filibustering fame is
charged with violating the navigation
laws by going on a foreign voyage with
out being properly registered, came up
in the United States court today before
Judge Emory Speer.
Owing to the absence of Collector of
Customs Lamb, of Brunswick, through
whose office the steamer was seized, by
reason, of Illness, the case went over until
April 1.
The steamer’s owner denies all the
chgrges> of violation of law and denies
that th» steamer ever went to Cuba with
a cargo of arms and men. About twenty
-flve witnesses were brought here for the
trial, eight of whom are from Philadel
phia.
KEEP NO DOUBTFUL COMPANY,
Said the Trial Judge In Releasing Ivory,
the Alleged London Dynamiter.
London, Jan. 20.—The trial of EdWard
J. Ivory, an alleged dynamite conspira
tor, which began Monday, suddenly came
.to an end today by a complete collapse
of the government’s case, and the dis
charge of the prisoner. When Justice
Hawkins took bis seat on the bench, in
the Central criminal court. Old Bailey,
this morning, Sir R. B. Finlay, solicitor
general, Who has been conducting the
prosecution, addressed the court saying
that the prosecuting authorities in the
case had made a discovery that the ex
plosives which were found In Antwerp
were purchased after the date of the al
leged conspiracy, as far as Ivory was
concerned therein, and there was no evi
dence to show that he was concerned in
the purchase of the explosives. There
fore, he said, that portion of the case
could not be sustained and It wv.* not
customary to proceed with the trial of a
case upon minor charges after the prln
cipal charge had been -withdrawn. Jus
tice Hawkins concurred in the remarks of
the solicitor-general, and directed the
Jury to find a verdict of not guilty, which
was done.
The Judge, continuing his remarks,
commended the police for their able and
impartial conduct in connection with the
case and the prisoner having been form
ally discharged, left the dock a free man
and Joined his friends.
In discharging Ivory, Justice Haw
kins said to him. “Keep no more doubt
ful company. It might bring you into
grave trouble. Look to your future.”
A FAIR PROPOSITION.
To Settle the Colorado Miners’ Troublcy^
Rejected toy Them In a Ballot. /
Leadvillle, Col., Jan. 20.—The mlno/^
by formal ballot las't night, refused to Cj-’
cept the proposition submitted to thimu
toy the operators for a settlement of the
great strike.
Gov. Adams, Eugene V. Debs and rep
resentatives of the miners and mine op
erators were in conference all day en
deavoring to arrive at a satisfactory set
tlement of the strike. It was finally de
cided that the Miners’ union should de
cide by ballot whether or not the miners
would accept the final proposition sub
mitted to them toy the operators yester
day, which is as follows:
To the Miners of the t#eadvflle District:
The mine owners and managers of the
Leadville district are not antagonistic
to law-a'blding organized labor, and in
order, to bring about a settlement of the
present differences, make the following
proposition: In all mines where the min
ers’ wages are now $2.60 per day, the
miners shall be paid $2.75 per day for all
calendar months in which the average
silver quotations shall be 70 cents per
ounce or over, and $3 per day for all
calendar months In which the average
silver quotations shall be 75 oents per
ounce or over.
The miners began balloting at 8 o’clock
and shortly before midnight unanimously
decided to reject the propositions.
This action on the part of the miners
puts la stop to further negotiations for
the time being. Gov. Adams left last
night for Denver. Both he and Mr. Debs
expressed themselves as believing the
proposition of the mine owners to be a
fair one.
PATRICK O’BRIEN DEFEATED
In an Effort to Secure Amnesty For Irish
Political Prisoners.
London, Jan. 20—The business of the
house of commons today was the debate
on the address in reply to the speech
from the throne. Patrick O’Brien, mem
ber for Kilkenny City, moved an amend
ment to reconsider the sentences of Irish
prisoners who had been condemned to
imprisonment upon the charges o ftreas
on. The amendment was seconded by J.
C. Flynn, member for North Cork.
Mr. Timothy M. Healy, member for
North Louth, supported Mr. O'Brien's
amendment, and in the course of his
speech declared British agents in America
had provoked the outrages with which the
condemned men were charged.
Sir M. W. Ridley, home secretary, said
that he was unable to see any reason for
advising that amnesty be granted to the
political prisoners referred to in the
amendment, much as the government de
sired to remedy any Irish grievance.
These men had been found guilty of
crimes abhorred by the civilized world,
and the fairness of their trial and the
impartiality of the courts had been at
tested this very day by the withdrawal
of the charge against Bel!, or Ivory, be
fore the same judge that sentenced the
Irish prisoners, whose liberty is now
sought. . „ ,
Mr. O'Brien’s amendment was defeat
led by a vote of 204 to 132.
THE OBSTACLE REMOVED.
And John Bull Will Sign the Venezuelan
Treaty.
London, Jan. 20—The Dally Chronicle
will publish tomorrow a dispatch from
its Washington correspondent saying
that Lord Salisbury has removed the last
obstacle to the signing of the Venezuelan
treaty by consenting that the Venezue
lan government shall nominate one of
the members of the board of arbitration.
It is agreed that the member nomi
nated by Venezuela shall be an Ameri
can, and Venezuela will ask Chief Jus
tice Fuller to serve as her representa
tive.
SUCCESSFULLY ELECTROCUTED.
A Jilted Lover and Murderer Pays the
Penalty of His Crime.
Auburn, N. Y., Jan. 20.—John Hoch
wag successfully electrocuted today.
There was no Incident to mark the event
as unusual. The current was turned on
at 12:10. A second shock was given him
and both were over at 12:22, when Hoch
was officially pronounced dead.
A young girl named Minnie Ingersoll,
living In Lomls county, had rejected
Hoeh's attentions and he lay in wait and
shot her with a Winchester rifle, killing
her instantly. An old man named Strife
witnessed the killing and Hoch shot him
also, but not fatally. Hoch pretended
to attempt suicldte when arrested, t ut did
himself no injury.
PRITCHARD’S STATEMENT.
Raleigh, N. C., Jlan. 20.—The following
statement was Issued by Senator Pritch
ard today: This victory means that the
middle-of-the-road populists are In the
saddle. It means that Col. Skinner is not
only 'the leader of the populist party in
North Carolina, but by his able manage
ment of his Interest he has demonstrated
the fact that he will rank in the future
as the leader of the populist cause. He
has observed every pledge that his party
made to the republican party two years
ago, and in so doing he has not required
a Blngle pledge from me or any other re
publican and without any sacrifice of
the silver cause, because he knows I
occupy the same position as I dJd two
years a.go.
A SINGULAR OCCIDENT.
Savannah, Ga., Jan. 20.—A singular ac
cident occurred this afternoon just out
of the Central railway station. In which
the Pullman observation car, Fingall, of
the Florida Central and Peninsular ves
tibule service, was turned on its side.
The train was backing and collided with
a lumber car. The observation car roiled
over, but as the train was moving slowly,
little damage was done. No one was in
jured and the car was righted in a short
time.
PRITCHARD THE WINNER.
Raleigh, N. C., Jan. 20.—The vote for
senator on Joint ballot today resulted as
follows: Pritchard, republican, 88;
Thompson, populist, 43; Daughton. dem
ocrat, 33. Pritchard's majority of the
vote cast, 12. Majority of the entire
membership of the legislature, 3.
VISITED BY EARTHQUAKES.
Athens, Jan. 20.—Severe shocks of
earthquake have been experienced in the
province of Delvino Esplrua. A number
of villages have been destroyed, and it Is
feared that many of the inhabitants of
the province have been killed or injured, t
To CosJ Five Millions Ordered By
^ the Senate.
'7' -
ORGAN'S DEFAULT BILL
■ C*
f -
'Jn the Funding Debt ot the Pacific Railrocd
Laid Aside.
MR. 1URPIE STILL AFTER THE CANAL
Classes the Proposed Waterway With the
Bogus Affairs of History—Yost-Tuck
er Contest Comes Up in the
House- Other News.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 20.—The sen
ate passed today the bill for the erection
of a new custom house building in New
York on the site of the present building,
at a cost not exceeding $5,000,000, appro
priating $250,000 for one year's rental of
temporary premises, and appointing, at
a salary of ^$5,000 each, a board of five
building commissioners. The bill now
goes to the house. The resolution here
tofore offered by Mr. Morgan as to Pa
cific railroad defaults was laid aside
without action, and that offered by Mr.
Pettegrew, silver, of South Dakota, as
to the divisional lines between Venezuela
and British Guiana, was referred to the
committee on foreign relations.
The joint resolution as to electric con
duits in the city of Washington was dis
cussed during the morning hour, Mr.
Faulkner, democrat, of West Virginia,
replying to the speech of Mr. Hill, of
New York, on Tuesday. It went over
without action.
Mr. Turple, democrat, of Indiana. con>
tinued his onslaught on the Nicaragua
canal bill, speaking for two hours and
leaving his speech still unfinished. He
likened the securities offered by the com
pany for the hundred millions of con
cessions by the government to bogus
mortgages and to Peter Funk securities,
and quoted the figures of the company’s
estimate of costs and of the government
engineers’ estimates to prove what he
termed the enormity of suppression
practiced by the company. The legis
lative appropriation bill was then taken
up and findshed; and a house bill of ses
sion relieving foreign yachts from ton
nage charges vvaB taken up and passed.
Mr. Chandler's bill for representation
of the United States at the monetary
conference was postponed until Tuesday
next.
Ak U U VIUV/IV lilt DIIIUII liiijiy*** iivv»
tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 20.—The con
sideration of the contested election case
grave the house today an opportunity to
indulge In some political discussion as
relating: to elections In Virginia. It was
that of Jacob Yost vs. H. St . George
Tucker, from the Tenth district of Vir
ginia, for possession of a seat in the
Fifty-fourth congress. The majority of
the committee on elections No. 3. and
the majority of the republican members
recommended that Tucker be permitted
to retain his seat. Messrs. Walker, re
publican, of Virginia, and Thomas, re
publican, of Michigan, reported that
Yost was entitled to the seat. The point
In dispute was as to the counting of cer
tain '‘imperfect” ballots which the state
la/w declared should be thrown out. If
they were counted Yost would have a
small majority. The majority were of
the opinion that they came In fatal con
flict with the law and should be rejected;
the minority said that as the Intent of
the voter could be determined from theme
they should be counted. The report of
the majority was advocated by Messrs.
Codding, republican, of Pennsylvania,
and Jenkins, republican, of Wisconsin,
members of the committee; and that of
tlie minority by Mr. Yost, the contestant,
who was accorded the privilege of the
floor; Messrs. Grcsvenor, republican, of
Ohio, and Daniels, republican, of New
York. An agreement was reached to
take a vote on the case tomorrow at 4:30
o'clock.
A partial agreement of the conferees
on the army appropriation bill was re
ported and agreed to, the house insist
ing upon further disagreement to the
senate amendments still in dispute.
Bills were passed authorizing the con
struction of bridges across the Cumber
land and Tennessee rivers in Kentucky;
authorizing the secretary of war to grant
certificates showing the services of tel
egraphers in the war for the union. .
At 5:05 o’clock the house adjourned un
til tomorrow.
THE FIELD TRIALS.
Rain Gave Them a Slight Rack-Set—Von
Gull Makes a Reputation for Bir
mingham, Running In Fine Form.
West Point, Miss., Jan. 20.—Rain pre
vented the trials until this afternoon,
■when the setter derby was finished and
two braces of the all-age pointer stake
was tried. Without any reason for It
the six dogs In the second serleB were
carried Into the third, and the Judges
must have been thoroughly convinced of
their error. Pin Money and Christiana
were the first brace down, both running
In splendid form, Christiana never run
ning so well before; always fast enough,
she Increased her range to advantage.
Pin Money succeeded in beating Her
Find. Dave Earl and Tory Rustic ran a
fair competition, with little or no* ad
vantage to either. There was little work
on game which Earl did. Peconic ran
wRh Hurstburn Seip, both proving they
had no business in this series, and espe
cially Peconic.
About 3 o'clock the all-age pointer
stake was started. Von Gull beating Sis
ter Sue out. though she did better than
usual. Von Gull ran in his best form.
Virginia beat Tick Boy in every way,
finding all the bevies doing most single
point work also. Tick Boy was decidedly
off form, and did a lot of bad work. His
work should prevent him a further trial.
STOCKHOLDERS TO SUFFER.
Louisville, Ky., Jan. 20.— Judge Toney
this afternoon appointed Charles F. Tay
lor receiver of the Germania Safety
Vault and Trust company. Suit for
the appointment was brought by Her
man Will* and A M. Emler, who allege
a violation of the charter. The stock
of the trust company is all practically
owned by the stockholders of the sus
pended Germania National bank. It la
now said tihe stockholders of the bank
will have to be assessed to .pay depositor*
in full. Trust company capital stock la
$200,000.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
-
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 1897.
NUMBER 3
THE INDEPENDENCE OF CUBA
And This Alone Will Be a Fitting
Monument
TO OUR FALLEN COMRADES
Says Gen, 7. Estrada Palma in an Open Letter
to the People.
_•
TOO MANY BROKEN PROMISES MADE
By the Mother Country and No More
Are Wanted by the
Cubans.
At the Very Gates of Havana Neater Ar
rangueron Captures a Train and
Takes Away Fifteen Spanish
Officers—Weyler Threat
ens Every Man, Wo
man and Child.
New Vork, Jan. 21.—Gsn. T. Estrada
Palma, of the Cuban junta in this city,
issues the following: statement today:
"So much has lately been said of the
probability of the termination of the Cu
ban revolution, by the acceptance on the
part of the Cubans of autonomy or re
form?, that I feel it incumbent upon me,
as the accredited representative of the
Cubans, to make a brief statement on the
subject.
"Reforms were passed by the Spanish
cortes, but the outbreak of this revolu
tion was not stayed thereby one hour.
There was, and is, but one idsa for which
the Cubans are fighting. We have had
CllUUgll Ui OU-VOliCU IVlUi Ufc
promise® of more reforms, enough of
promised autonomy. Every Intelligent
man would rightly condemn the lead
ers and participants of this movement if
anything short of Independence be the
basis of a treaty of peace with Spain.
“It Is claimed that Gen. Gomez is will
ing to treat with Spain upon the basts of
autonomy, and that a letter to that ef
fect has been received by me.
“There is no such letter.
"Knowing Gen. Gomez as a comrade In
the last revolution; knowing his opinions
a® expressed to me before and during
this war; know,eg his stainless patriot
ism, I can vouch for him. He is made of
too stern a material to surrender on any
such terms, particularly when in his lat
est letters to me he writes contentedly
of his resources a,ndi glowingly of his con
victions that this winter's campaign will
be most successful.
"Rut even though any one of our fore
most leaders should be inclined to term
inate the iwar by the acceptance of au
tonomy (which is barely within the
bounds of possibility), while he himself
might surrender, he would do so alone.
We Cubans are not worshippers of indi
vidualities; we are steadfast followers of
our ideal.
“Tha death of our glorious Maceo
struck sorrow to every heart; but we did
not falter; his forces did not surrender,
and the revolution received no perceptible
^ check.
“The leader who proposed peace under
the Spanish flag would And himself with
out followers.
“No treaty of peace can be made by the
Cubans unless ratified by a specially con
voked assembly. It ia beyond the bounds
of possibility to expect that the Cubans,
after two years of sanguinary strife,
when they find themselves In a position
such as has never been their good for
tune to occupy, in point of numbers,
equipment and resources, will now weak
ly accept the terms of compromise.
"Every Cuban, every American knows
that the apparent generous and concilia
tory spirit of Spain springs, not from her
strength, but from her weakness. How
can we, then, under the circumstances,
be expected to waver?
“If the Cubans in the field are too
strong to even consider such proposals,
the Cubans in the cities are too well
advised of Spain’s plans and Spain’s pre
carious situation to counsel this step.
“In the cities, Spain's only stronghold,
men of position, of refinement, of wealth,
have but lately signed a statement in
which they unequivocally say to those of
this country who 'seemed to labor under
the error that autonomy would be a so
lution of the so-called Cuban problem,
that, nothing short of independence is ac
ceptable to them. They base their state
ment not only on political, but also on
economical reasons.
“What form of autonomy would help
Cuba when saddled not only with her
previous debt, but with the added burden
of the cost of the present war? The fu
ture of the country would be ruin and
starvation.
“News of our suocesses in the field may
be suffocated by the censor; pacification
of the island provinces may be falsely
proclaimed, as in the case of Pinar Del
Rio; decrees allowing grinding of sugar
may be issued where all cane has been
destroyed; promises of reform and au
tonomy given and amnesties promulgat
ed; but we Cubans will continue to fight
for independence and nothing but inde
pendence, first, last and all the time.
“Our leaders may fall, but others will
take their places. The opportunity will
And the men. Gomez himself has written
that even should he fall, the revolution is
strong enough to continue to its triumph.
“The only excuse we wfll have for ha v
ing begun the war will be its triumph;
the only fitting monument for our fallen
comrades, the independence of their coun
try.
(Signed) "T. ESTRADA PALMA.”
BOLD AND DARING
Was the Work ot Nestor Arranguren, a
Brave Cuban Leader—Captured
a Train Near Havana.
Havana. Jan. 21.—(Via Key West, Fla.,
Jan. 21.)—Passengers by the Olivette re
port the most daring deed done by the
rebels during this war was performed by
the dashing leader,' Nestor Arranguren,
commanding the Cuban forces In Havana
province, when the news reached Ha
vana Sunday morning the people were
thunder-struck. The sensation was tre
mendous, the Spaniards were furious and
the Cubans elated at the boldness and
courage displayed by the young leader at
the very gates of Havana.
Many rumors were afloat as to the fate
of the prisoners. It was currently be
lieved all were hung. Rabid Spaniards
were pleased and said It would authorize
Weyler to continue hia vigorous policy
and adopt harsher measures to offset the
alleged Cuban atrocities now evidenced
Jn this case.
Many said Fondevlela would Initiate re
taliation, slaughtering over 200 people
that night. The town was terror-stricken
and parties went Sunday evening to in
vestigate the facts. They found the town
deserted. All houses were closed and
only armed soldiers were parading the
streets.
Persons speaking with Fondevlela say
his face, usually repulsive, was fiendish
when referring to the fact that he knew
■the blow was aimed at him. He satd the
conspiracy was originated a: Guanaba
coa, and all connected with it would suf
fer. Rumors reached Havana next day
that many were killed on the previous
night, but it is impossible to ascertain
the number or names of the victims. The
occurrence referred to happened as fol
lows:
The train leaving Regia station, oppo
site Havana, at 10 p. m., was derailed a
kilometre and a half on the way to Gua
nabacoa, by. two dead cattle placed on
the track. Fifty men, lying in waiting.
Instantly, with leveled guns and drawn
machetes, ordered all to remain quiet.
The civilian passengers, especially tHe
ladies, were politely assured that no
harm would be done. The men were
deprived of hats and coats. No other
theft was committed. All the military
men were ordered to leave the train.
One escaped by Jumping from the car
window, and another by striking a
blow on the Jaw, felling his captbr, Cor
poral Francisco Vento, offering resist
ance, was given five machete cuts and
seriously wounded. Two mulattoes,
dTessed in firemen's suits, tried to es
cape and one was killed. The other was
seriously wounded. The engineer and 1
fireman were also ordered to leave the
train and follow the rebels, but were re
leased after a short distance.
When all the prisoners were together,
the rebels started to march a distance
of about a kilometre, where Arranguren,
with the main body of his men, had re
mained waiting. As soon as a Junction
was formed the whole body disappeared.
The names of the captured are: Cap
tains Res Soriane. Joaquin Otero, Afl
itonio Fernandez; First Lieutenants
Toinas Gonzalez, Ricardo Betancourt,
Antoplo Perez Martinez: Second Lieuten
ants Jose. Marrero, Jose Velasco, Plo Gil.
Bernardo Barros, four soldiers and a
brakeman—In all fifteen persons.
In order to appreciate the Importance
of the deed, It Is necessary to know that
It took place three minutes' ride from
Regia, opposite the last houses of the
town, in full view of Havana and only
100 yards from a Spanish detachment of
twenty-five soldiers, close to the switch
ing station of the branch road to Ma
tanzas. There are no bushes, but open
fields for a long distance, and It was a
clear moonlight night.
the Spanish officers admit that Ar
ranguren’s tactics were wonderful, and
says he calculated with mathematical
precision. They udmire the audacity and
recklessness displayed.
(Monday morning the report reached
HSlana that all had been released with
the exception of Banos and the brake
man. A reaction of sentiment at once
followed. Rabid Spaniards were vexed,
and the Cubans, joyful over Arranguren’s
masterly diplomatic stroke. It showed
that the rebels continued their humane
policy, despite provocation offered by
Spanish atrocities, sufficient to tax the
patience of any people on earth. Liberal
Spaniards are enthusiastic over Arran
guren’s action. They say it gave them
a lesson in Spanish chivalry. The re
leased officers are full of praise of the
treatment they received, which was moist
kindly and courteous. They refer to many
instances of delicate attention. The best
food was given. No harsh words were
used nor offensive remarks made. They
had a friendly conversation with Arran
guren, in which the Cuban question was
discussed, Arranguren trying in a quiet
way to convince them that Spain’s efforts
to crush the revolution were powerless
before the Cubans’ determination to tight
to the end, accepting no compromise.
They admired the organization of Ar
ranguren’s forces, whose drilling was
perfect. They admit there is nothing
similar in the Spanish ranks. The men
tioned as a curious fact that the leader’s
adjutant, a lad of 15 years, has already
been pierced through the body with a
Mauser bullet.
They detail their adventure as follows:
They marched all night and arrived
early in the morning at the San Luiis
camp, near Camp Florida. There their
captain took the names of all and held
a council of war. They found that Bar
ros was a Cuban, and decided to hang him
as a traitor to his country and the brake
man as a spy. The officers were not pres
ent at the council, nor did they witness
the execution. Barros was hung from a
tree and a sign placed on the body, say
ing: “Acts like this are regrettable, but
It Is necessary to give an example; there
are so many traitors. Inside the pocket
a communication will be found. It Is
urgent that this reach the military com
mander.’’
On the brakoman s body was placed an
other sign, saying: "Hung as a spy.”
The communication read:
General Start of the Liberating Army.
Fifth Army Corps, First Division of the
Northern brigade, Havana Cavalry
Regiment:
On the night of the 16th I attacked the
train leaving Regia for Guanabacoa at
10 o’clock p. m„ which carried many mil
itary. Those who made any resistance
perished, and those who did not, were
made prisoners. The prisoners are:
Capts. Res Soriano. Joaquin Otero, An
tonio Fernandez; First Lieutenants
Tomas Gonzalez, Ricardo Betancourt,
Antonio Perez Martinez; Second Lieu
tenants Jose Marrero, Jose Velasco, Pio
Gil, Bernardo Barros and four soldiers
and a brakeman—In all fifteen prisoners.
All these are Spanish citizens, with the
exception of Lieut. Barros, the bearer of
this message, who was killed for being a
Cuban traitor.
(Signed.) NESTOR ARRANGUREN.
To General-in-Chief Valcriano Weyler.
San Luis Camp. Jan. 17, 1897.
Further details show Arnanguren’s
magnanimity. All the prisoners were es
corted to near Jaruco. At the moment of
parting one Cuban shouted "Cuba libre."
Arranguren at once silenced him. saying
it was not manly to force a Spanish of
ficer to repeat the cry, since they came to
Cuba In obedience to the duty required
by military discipline.
The above facts have created a great
impresison. The rest of the officers in
Havana and elsewhere know the truth.
All are disgusted with the Official report,
which hides the truth and styles the reb
els “plateadors,” (marauders). It is be
lieved when the news reaches Spain a
reaction In favor of the Cubans will oc
cur.
The sinking of the'gunboat Relampago
caused a sensation. Nothing is known
except from the official report. Private
advices are anxiously expected. It is
said a mysterious ship was seen near
Cane Cruise and It is being asked If it
had any connection with the occurrence.
Weyler has started with 10,000 men and
Intends crossing Havana province and
to reach Matanzas towards Santa Clara.
He has ordered the commanders in the
zones of Havana within three days to de
stroy all houses on plantations which
may serve as a refuge for the enemy,
except those for the use of detachments.
The rebels .continue burning cane fields.
General Pin prohibited, tn an indirect
way, the grinding of cane in Clenfuegos
by arresting laborers and capturing
carta. The foreign planters wished to
know U he had a written order to pre
The Train Robbers Select the Same
Old Spot.
AND MUCH BETTER SUCCESS
Met Their Efforts This Time Than On
the Previous Occasion.
PASSENGERS NOT CALLED UPON
Utmost Secrecy Among Officials Here But a Call For
Special Detective Burns of the Express Com
pany Indicates a Gcod Haul.
Train robbers got In their work again
last night on a Southern railway passen
ger train.
The hold-up was, as on the previous
occasion, December 16, near Berry sta
tion, on the Birmingham and Greenville
division, and within 300 yards of the pre
vious occurrence.
Details are meagre, as the officials
could not be seen, and 'had used every
effort to keep the affair sub rosa, but
enough is known to say that the express
car was looted.
This assertion is warranted, as it Is
known that Express Agent Hailey re
ceived a telegram about 9 o’clock which
said In substance:
“Train No. 35 held’ up near same
place, beyond Berry station. Send
Burns.”
As soon as possible a special was got
ten from the Southern round house and
yards, and Special Detective P. B. Burns
of the Southern Express company, with
a posse, left for the scene.
The robbers, It Is supposed, got on the
train at Berry station, and when a large
stream was reached got Into the engine
and made the engineer halt the train.
The express car was forced and the safe
looted, and then the engineer was or
dered to pull out.
The express car was the only point of
attack, as It was understood none of the
passengers were molested.
The train was No. 35, which left here
at 4 p. m., with Engineer Brown In the
cab and' Conductor Wllmot In charge.
No details of the hold-up were given
out by the railroad officials, and the news
was gleaned piece-meal, but it is thought
that the robbers got several valuable
packages.
SOUTHERN ASSOCIATED PRESS RE
PORT.
Atlanta, Ga„ Jan. 21.—A special to the
Constitution from Columbus, Mliss., says:
The westbound passenger train on the
Southern railway was held up near Berry,
Ala., about 7 o’clock tonight, the rob
bers stealing several valuable express
packages and two or three jugs of liquor.
This is the same place where a similar
robbery was committed on December 16,
Inst, and it is supposed that this robbery
was committed by the same parties. It is
Impossible to obtain full particulars at
this late hour.
vent work. Pin consulted Weyler, not
hiding: his sympathies with the planters.
Weyler sent a court reply, transferring
Pin to Bayamo, and Pin returns on sick
leave to Spain. All classes at Cienfuegos
have telegraphed Weyler expressing re
gret on Pin’s departure.
A NEJVSPAPER CORRESPONDENT
Direc t From'Cuba Says Weyler Is Off On
a War Upon Women and Children.
Tampa, Fla., Jan. 21.—C. B. Pendleton,
a Journal representative, taken off the
steamer Whitney six weeks ago,arrived on
the Olivette tonight from Key West, and
left for Washington in response to a sub
poena from the house committee on for
eign affairs to testify in the investigation
of the arerst of American citizens in
Cuba by the Spanish authorities. Pen
dleton confirms the report of the sinking
of a Spanish gunboat by the Cuban's.
Passengers from Havana say that
Gen. Weyler declared before leaving for
the field that he would crush the rebel
lion in Havana province this time if he
had to slay every man-, woman and child
In the province.
It was rumored' in Havana that a large
expedition had landed in Santa Clara
Sunday night. The Cubans do not be
lieve it, and say that no expedition had
been sent. A second-class passenger
from Havana says the town of Guana
bacoa Is deserted by the Cubans on ac
count of the cruelties of Gen. Fondeviela.
Over 100 pacifleoh have been taken In and
around this town and subjected to tor
tures of the most horrible character to
compel their betrayal of the insurgent
forces. The Cubans are indignant over
the celebration next Saturday of the an
niversary of the birth of King Alfonso,
and donating the proceeds of the enter
tainment to the Redi Cross association,
which, they say, has done nothing for
the Cuban cause.
THE PARDONING POWER.
Madrid, Jan. 21.—A dispatch from Ha
vana states that the captain general will
pardon on King Alfonso's day, Jan. is,
ail the insurgents arrested in the prov
ince of Pinar del Rio en minor charges.
IN A FOREIGN TOMB
Was Laid the Body of Delgado—Weyler
on the March.
Havana, Jan. 21.—The remains of Hen
ry Delgado, the American prisoner who
died yesterday morning at the San Am
brosia hospital, where he had been con
fined ever since his arrival in this city,
after his capture in an insurgent hos
pital in the province of Pinar del Rio,
were interred at 4 o’clock this afternon,
in the Colon cemetery. The funeral was
a very modest one and was attended only
by the American correspondents here,
the clerks from the American consulate
and Dr. Burgess. The interment was
in a special plot.
Captain General Weyler, after he left
Havana, marched along the highway
to Guinea, which place he reached yes
terday. Nothing further is known if his
movements.__
IN A SPECIAL CAR
The House River and Harbor Commit
tee Will Visit Mobile, New Or
leans and Other Points,
i i . : —- t
Was)ilngtpn, Jan. 2l—<>pt. J. W. Bry
ant. representing the New Orleans com
mercial, shipping and railway Interests,
has made arrangements to leave Wash
ington. with the members of the river
and liaVbdr' committee'of the house of
representatives for a visit to Mobile, New
Orleans, Sabine Pass, Houston, Galves
ton and Chattanooga. The party wilF
lea<va hera- over t. th%J9outhern railway
next Sunday monalnJmt 11:06 o'clock in
a spedMl car and Wilpreach Mobile Mon
day, which is the ionp of Representative
B. H. Clarke, where twenty-four hours
will be spent in examining the improve
n, nts In Mobile harbor, arriving in New
Orleans Tuesday evening. The fololwing
morning the committee will take one of
the Southern Pacific steamship com
pany’s steamers and proceed down to the
mouth of the Mississippi river, visiting
the crevasse in Pass a la ’Outre and
also the Jetties and Southwest pass, re
turning to the city next day. On the eve
ning of the same day (Thursday) the
committee will leave New Orleans by the
Southern Pacific railway for Sabine pass;
on a visit to the government works at
that place, and then for Houston to look
at the improvements on Buffalo bayou,
and from there to Galveston, where deep
water is being established by the gov
ernment at great expense. From Gal
veston the committee will return to New
Orleans on its way to Washington over
the Southern railway, stopping on- the
way at Chattanooga, Tenn., to examine
the government works there on the Ten
nessee river. The committee will be ab
sent from the city ten days.
Fourteen of the seventeen members
of the committee will accompany this
trip, including its chairman, Hon. W. B.
Hooker, of New York, and wife; Hon. B.
Herman, of Oregon, wife, daughter and
son; Hon. J. E. Reyburn, of Pennsylva
nia, and wife; Hon. H. A. Cooper, of
Wisconsin; Hon. T. E. Burton, of Ohio;
Hon. W. B. Barrett, of Massachusetts,
and wife; Hon. Walter Reeves, of Illi
nois, and wife; Hon. C. A. Towne, of
Minnesota, and wife; Hon. B. D. Doven
er, of West Virginia, and wife; Hon. C.
M. Clarke, of Missouri; Hon. J. A. Walker,
of Virginia; Hon. T. C. Catchlns, of Mis
sissippi; Hon. R. H. Clarke, of Alabama;
Hon. A. S. Berry, of Kentucky, and son;
also Representatives J. S. Sherman, of
New York; A. Meyer, of Louisiana; Pat
rick Henry, of Arkansas, and Mr. H. G.
Rask, clerk of the committee.
IT WAS AN OFF DAY
And the Coast Defense Convention Took
a Trip on the Briny1—Inspected
the Quarantine Station.
Tampa, Fla., Jan. 21.—This was an oft
day with the delegates to the coast de
fense and harbor Improvement conven
tion, but while no session was held, a
practical demonstration of the necessity
for fortifying Tampa bay was given.
At 9 o’clock 400 delegates boarded a spe
cial train for Port Tampa, where they
embarked on the steamer Margaret for
a.tflp down the bay. Mullet Key quar
antine station was visited, and the pre
cautions taken to keep yellow fever out
of the country were fully explained.
The steamer Olivette, from Havana,
was met at the Key and' Inspected. The
excursionists proceeded to Egmont key,
but did not land on account of rain. An
elegant luncheon, liquid refreshments
and famous Tampa cigars were served.
The steamer returned at 4 o’clock, and
the party reached their hotel delighted
with the reception.
General Schofield, president of the con>
Ventlon, and other officers of t'he same,
were entertained on board by H. B. Plant
and officers of the Plant system.
’ The need of fortifications for Tampa
bay was pointed out and will be pre
sented to the convention at tomorrow's
session.
General E. A. McAIpln, of New York,
and other prominent speakers will deliv
er addresses, and the committee on reso
lutions will report. This committee is
the working body of the convention. It
consists of Major Defrees, of Indiana;
A. A. Wiley, Alabama; HV’. D. Chipley,
Florida; J. H. Estlll, Georgia; O. D.
WethereH, Illinois: W. B. Haldeman,
Kentucky; Dr. J. W. Dupree, Louisiana;
F. Q. Brown, Massachusetts; E. C. Babb,
Minnesota; P. K. Mayers. Mississippi;
J. E. Lamaster. Nebraska; General Mc
Alpln, New York; A. Holland, Iowa; C.
Dewey, North Carolina; 8. E. Stebblns,
North Dakota; Thomas Ewing Miller,
Ohio; W. R. Thompson, Pennsylvania;
J. C. Hemphill, South Carolina; Henry
Wells, Vermont, ami E. ft. Beaurue, Mis
souri.
The plan is to form a national coast
defense association at this meeting, and
a national naval reserve association as
an auxiliary.
Captain G. H. Morryfleld, the com
mander of the Florida naval reserve, is
here and has already organized a Tampa
division with thirty-five members. He
'Will petition the legislature to create a
state naval reserve and make appropri
ation for its support.
Fifty additional delegates arrived here
today and will participate in the con
vention proceedings.
THE TRUST’S ANSWER.
Chattanooga. Tenn., Jan. 21.—The an
swer of the associated pipe works here
tofore styled the cast iron trust, to the
petition of the United States government
for injunction against alleged Illegal
business operations, was filed today in
the United States circuit court. Denial
is made of the chief allegations in the
bill, but the existence of a protective as
sociation is admitted, denying, however,
the charge of an unearned bonus esti
mated for 1896 at $1,400,000, distributed
among the members of the combine.,
They also make positive averment that
they have not trodden out smaller con
cerns. The hearing of the case is set for
Jan. 25. The prosecution is being in
stituted under a recent congressional en
actment governing interstate commerce.
THE FIELD TRIALS.
Elgin’s Dash and Von Gull Show Up
Elgin’s Dash and Van Gull Show Up
Well—Eight Nominations for the
Champion Stake.
West Point, Miss., Jan. 21.—The morn
ing was cloudy, clearing away in the
afternoon and altogether favorable for
good work. The all-age pointer stake
was continued and some excellent work
done by the dogs. Young Riprap, the
derby winner, owned by Bar Harbor ken
nels, ran Ilrst, with F. G. Durham’s dog,
Elgin's Dash, both doing fine work. Dash
finding more birds, but the character of
■work was with Riprap.
Rip Saw and Delhi ran next, giving an
ordinary trial with Delhi best on game
and staunchness. Tippoo and Cracker
jack ran in ordinary form, the former
best in every way. Nabob ran his bye
with a setter and did fairly good work
considering he had slight acquaintance
with his handler.
six dogs were taken into second series.
Von Gull to run with Virginia, Young
Riprap with Sister Sue, Tippoo with El
gin's Dash. The territory for good work
was now better and a better showing
made with most of the dogs. Von Gull
did not run as well as In his first trial,
but Virginia was quite as good and the
best of the two. Young Riprap far out
classed Sister Sue—In fact he outclasses
anything in the stake and has proved
himself the best young dog for the year,
and will propably win the all-age stakes.
Tippoo and Elgin’s Dash ran in decide
ly improved form end a close competi
tion. but with the work, of both trials
considered, Dash is ahead. In single
bird work he has not been equalled.
This closes the second series. The cup
for amateurs contested for by Prof. Os
thaus and H. S. Smith, running Nabob
and Ripsaw respectively, was won by
Smith. The all-age setter stake will be
gin tomorrow after the finish of the point
ers. The champion stake, to begin next
Tuesday, closed with eight nominations.
DELAWARE SENATORIAL MUDDLE
Will Now Be Transferred to Washing
ton—Claimants for the Seat on Hand.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 21.—The strug
gle for the senatorial seat from the state
of Delaware will soon be transferred to
Washington. This afternoon Mr. J. Ed
ward Addlcks, who claims a title to the
seat, reached Washington, carrying his
credentials, and on the same train came
Mr. R. R. Kenney with a certificate
signed by the governor. Meanwhile the
claim of Dupont for a rehearing is being
considered by the committee on privi
leges and elections. Mr. Addlcks held a
long conference with Senator Chandler,
aotlng chairman of the elections commit
tee, and Mr. Kenney was closeted for
some time with Senator Gray, of Dela
ware, who wa» the chairman of this com
mittee under the democratic adminlstra- J
tion of the senate. The manifesto Issued
by the members of the bolting legisla
ture of Delaware, signed by the presiding
officers of tihe two bodies, will be pre
sented in both branches of congress to
morrow. The manifesto appears in the
shape of a petition asking congress to
Investigate the recent elections in Dela
ware.
FLOUR MILL CLOSES.
Chicago, 111., Jan. 21.—The failure of
the Russell Flour Milling company at
West Superior, Wis., was announced on
the board of trade here today. The Rus
sell Milling company is an extensive con
cern, having a mill with a dally capac
ity of 3,000 barrels at West Superior and
smaller mills at Valley City, Mandan
and Jamestown, N. D. The assets and
liabilities are not yet known.
QUESTION OFDELICACY.
War Department Declines the Services
of a Woman as Stenographer.
Washington, D. C.. Jan. 21.—A ques
tion of woman’s rights has been raised
In the war department, and Is likely to
causd discussion. The civil service com
mittee recently advertised to fill a $1,500
vacancy In the aujutant general’s office,
requiring knowledge of five modem lan
guages, typewriting In these languages,
proof reading, library methods and
other qualifications. Allss Maud Stal
naker, of Washington, D. C„ a lady of
unexceptional character and accomplish
ment, was the only person who passed
the examination, and she was duly cer
tified for the position, but the appoint
ment has been rejected on the ground
that the department does not desire to
have a woman in the place.
JAPAN’S PROWESS.
London, Jan. 21.—A dispatch to the
Centarl News from Madrid says that M.
De Guorullle, who accompanied the Jap
anese staff officers during the late Chln
ese-Japaneso war, delivered a lecture to
night before the Madrid Geographical so
ciety. In the coures of his lecture he
dwelt upon Japan's growing power and
the change which had occurred in her
position among the nations of the world,
laying particular stress upon her polit
ical relations with other powers. He as
serted that Japan and the United States
had agreed- to conclude an alliance, a
fact, he declared, which Justified the un
easiness felt regarding Japan’s attitude
In the Philippine Islands, where she had
Initiated hostility to Spain, her asplia
tlons being to possess the islands.
QUESTION OF DELICACY.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 21.—Secretary
Francis has called upon the secretary of
the treaeury for $13,160,000 for quarterly
payment of pension agencies, as follows:
Topeka, Kan., $3,875,000; Philadelphia.
$1,975,000; New York City. $1,775,000: Lou
isville. $t,025,000; Knoxville, Teuh., *1,
100,000: Indianapolis. $2,700,000.
THE DELAWARE SENATORSHIP
Referred to the Committee on
Privileges and Elections,
HILL AGAIN FALLS DOWN
This Tim^ is a Bill Fixing Postmasters'
,erms at Four Years.
s •_
/£
TUP rj CONCLUDES HIS LONS TIRADE
s?
1 ist tho Nicaragua Canal Bill—Termed
tta Corpse—Tucker of Virginia De
Si
Q feats Yost in the Congressional
Contest—A Close Vote.
Washington, D. C„ Jan^ 21.—A few
days ago the memorial of Mr. Henry A.
Dupont for admission to a seat In the
senate from the state of Delaware was
presented by Mr. Chandler and was re
ferred to the committee on privileges and
elections. Today a certificate of election
was presented by the same senator, and
was similarly referred, to the one that
Mr. John Edward Addtcks had been le
gally elected to the vacant seat In the
senate from the state of Delaware. An
unsuccessful attempt was made by Mr.
Hill, backed by Mr. Chandler, to have a
bill considered and passed fixing the
term of offices of all postmasters at four
years. Mr. Hale, republican, of Maine,
objected, howtver, on the ground that
the bill would only intensify the scram
ble for postoffice appointments; and the
bill was not taken up.
Most of the morning hour (which Is
really two hours) was taken up today,
as it had been for the two previous days.
In a wrangle over the bill as to electrical
conduits in the city of Washington—Mr.
i Hill making an additional argument In
opposition, to the bill. It went over with
out action.
Then Mr. Turple began his third day's
argument against the Nicaragua canal
bin, illumining the subject with scintil
lations of bitter sarcasm. There was
no similarity, he said, but a dissimilar
ity, between the British government buy
ing the control of the Suez canal and the
United States government buying the
Nicaragua canal. The first was a case
of a "bird in the hand,” the second a.
case of a "bird in the bush.” If the
proposition made in the pending bill were
made to the British parliament, the re
ply, 'he said, would be, "You have no
right to make the transfer. Do you think
■that we are going to give you a hundred
million dollars for a corpse, and then
have to bury It at our own charge?"
When Mr. Turple closed his speech an
effort was made by Mr. Morgan, demo
crat, of Alabama, In charge of the bill,
to have a day and hour fixed for taking
the votes, but objection was made both
by Mr. Turple and by Mr. Vilas. Finally,
as a vote by nays and yeas showed the
absence of a quorum, a motion to ad
journ was made by Mr. Morgan, and the
senate at 4:20 o’clock adjourned until to
morrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 21.—After 126
members of the house of representatives,
including fifty-three republicans, had
voted in accordance with the recommen
dation of the majority of the committee
on elections No. 3, that Mr. Tucker, dem
ocrat, was entitled to retain his seat as a
member of the Fifty-fourth congress
from the Tenth. Virginia district, which
was contested by Mr. Yost, republican,
two hours were spent In making the
vote effective and finally settling the
matter. The case had been discussed
from noon until 4:30 o’clock, the commit
tee’s recommendation being supported
by Messrs. Dearmond, democrat, of Mis
souri; Walker, republican, of Massachu
setts; Tucker, the contestee, and McCall,
republican, of Massachusetts, chairman,
of the committee reporting the case. The
recommendation of the minority that
Mr. Yost (who is the representative-elect
from the district In the Fifty-fifth con
gress) be given the seat, was advocated
by Messrs. Grow, requbllcan, of Penn
sylvania; Taylor, republican, of Iowa;
laicey. republican, of Iowa; Brumm, re
publican, of Pennsylvania; Thorpe, re
publican, of Virginia, and Walker, re
publican, of Virginia, the latter of whom
with Mr. Thomas, republican, of Michi
gan, constituted the minority of te elec
At 4:30 the vote was taken on the reso
lution declaring Mr. YoBt entitled to his
seat as the representative of the Fifty
fourth congress from the Tenth district
of Virginia. The roll call proceeded amid
repressed excitement, for It was seep
that tihe vote would be close. The vote
was stated to be: Yeas, 119; nays, 127.
The democrats voted solidly against
the resolution, and the following repub
licans Joined them; Messrs, Achlson,
Adams, Arnold, of Pennsylvania; Ben
nett, Blue, Broderick, Codding. Coffin,
Cook, of Illinois; CorllsB. Draper,
Fletcher, Gillet, of New York; Gillett of
Massachusetts; Griswold, Hartman,Hen
ry, of Connecticut; Hill, of Connecticut;
Hooker, Hullck, Jenkins, Kerr, Leisen
ring, Leonard, Loud. Loudenslager, Mc
Call, of Massachusetts; McEwan, Mel
keljohn, Mercer, Moody, Overstreet, Par
ker. Phillips. Pitney, Poole, Powers,
Qulgg. Reyburn, Scranton, Shafroth,
Shannon, Sherman, Simpkins. Smith of
Illinois; Southard, Southwick. Taft,
Thomas, Towne, Wadsworth, Wanger,
and Wilson, of Idaho.
The vote in favor of Yost was 120 (Mr.
Thomas, of Michigan, having changed his
vote In order to move a reconsideration)
and this closeness Induced the friends of
the minority, led by Mr, Hepburn, repub
lican, of Iowa, and by Mr. Thomas, to
make a parliamentary light lasting two
hours to force an. adjournment. In the
hope that a different result might be
reached tomorrow. But their efforts
were futile, and the resolution declaring
Tucker entitled to hlB seat was adopted
at 6:30 o'clock by a vote of 118 to 47, four
teen members being present and not vot
ing. The result was clinched by the
adoption of the usual formal motion to
reconsider the vote and to lay that mo
tion on the table, and the house then ad
journed.
LOOKS LIKE A GENERAL STRIKE,
Joliet, 111., Jan. 21.—At a mass meet
ing of Braldwood miners, held on the
prairie, It was decided to stop work In
No. 3 shaft of the Star Coal company,
which action is expected to lead to a
general strike of miners In the Northern
Illinois field. The meeting requested all
shafts belonging to the association or
pool, to suspend work unlll after the dis
trict convention of the northern field Is
held. Another meeting will be held la
Coal City tomorrow.|STATE H ERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM,, ALA., SATURDAY, JANUARY" 23, 1897. NUMBER ft
CAPT.A, B-MTACHtN RETIRES
And It Will Be Judge Mayfield,
of Tuskaloosa,
FOR THE SOLICITORSHIP
Only One Candidate Is Announced in the Per
son of J. Manly Foster.
LARGE NUMBER OF HOUSE BILLS
Introduced by Legislators, Among Them an
Important One by Greene, of Jefferson
—Busy Bay Among the Senators—
Decisive Victory for Women.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 22.--(Special
Staff Correspondence.)—The democratic
caucus called for today for the purpose
of electing a Judge and solicitor of the
new city court of Tuscaloosa, was post
poned until tomorrow on adjournment of
the house.
Capt. McEachln retired last night from
the contest for the Judgeship of the city
court of Tuscaloosa, thus leaving the field
clear to Mr. Mayfield.
J. Manley Foster is the only applicant
for the position of solicitor and will' be
the choice of the caucus unless unfore- .
seen circumstances arise.
TODAY S SESSION.
This was a quiet day In the house.
Lavender’s bill to license slot machines
was the only measure which provoked
discussion and very little spirit was dis
played even over this bill. It was op
posed by Hon. Virgil Bauldln, of Jackson,
and laid upon the table.
The following local and general bills
were Introduced and referred as indi
cated :
H. 784, by Mr. Lavender—To prescribe
the punishment for assaults with intent
to ravish. Judiciary.
H. 785, by Mr. Brothers (by request)
To provide and establish a stock law for
Calhoun county Agriculture.
H. 786, by Mr. Shamblln—To relieve
John R. Barry of the disabilities of non
age. Revision of laws.
H. 787, by Mr. Reynolds (by request)—
For the relief of H. T. Estis. Ways and
Means.
H. 788, also (by request)—To relieve
George L. Dawson and Eliza A. Dawson
of the disabilities of non-age Revision
of 1&W8.
H. 789, by Mr. Long (by request)—To
establish a separate school district
known as the Jackson school district, In
Clarke county, Alabama. Education.
H. 790, by Mr. Lewis—To reincorporate
and establish a charter for the town of
Elba, in Coffee county. Corporations.
H. 791, also—To make the fees of bond
ed constables in the. county of Coffee the
same as sheriff's fees, where they per
form the same as similar services.
Claims and fees.
H. 792, by Mr. Beasley (with notice and
proof)—For the relief or B. H. Lewis, E.
G. Padgett and Jacob Neese as the sure
ties on the official bonds of Wm. M.
Snider as superintendent of Covington
county.
Whereas, Wm. M. Snider was duly
elected county superintendent of Coving
ton county. Alabama, for a term begin
ning In November and ending in Novem
ber, 1892, two years, and that after said
Snider as such county superintendent
went out of office, a default was claimed
against him of one hundred and seventy
five dollars ($176); and that B. H. Lewis,
E. G. Padgett and Jacob Neese, as the
sureties on the bond of said Snider, to
avoid litigation and the expense of a suit
on said bond, voluntarily paid the sum
of ($147.14) one hundred and forty-seven
and 14-100 dollars to J. T. Hardage, his
successor in office, the balance of said
claim of shortage having been paid by
said Snider’s offices by the state superin
tendent, It was ascertained by him that
said sum so paid as a shortage by said
Snider and his sureties on his official
bond was illegally and Improperly paid.
Ways and Means.
H. 795, by Mr. Huddleston—To amtend
section 7 of an act, approved February
21, 1893, entitled an act to constitute the
city of Wetumpka a separate school dis
trict and to provide a board of education
therefor. Revision of laws.
H. 794, Also—To authorize the mayor
and aldermen of the city of Wetumpka
to Issue bonds of said city for an amount
not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of
purchasing lots or real estate, improved
or unimproved, to be used for school pur
poses in said slty, and for erecting, add
ing to or improving school buildings, and
furnishing the same. Revision of laws.
H. 795, by Mr. Canant—For the relief
of D. H. Vaughan, sheriff of Geneva
county, Alabama, for the removal of
Jesse Williams, a prisoner, froth the state
of Florida to Geneva county, Alabama,
In the year 1896. Ways and means.
H. 796, by Mr. Bouldln—To amend sec
LlvAtt J iTuU ui uic v-vrvav* vs iiLiuuumu y auuv.
Judiciary.
H. 797, by Mr. Altman—To, amend sec
tions 2590 and 2591 of the cod® of 1886.
Judiciary.
H. 798, by Mr. Greene, of Jefferson—To
declare unlawful and void all arrange
ments, contracts, agreements, trusts or
combinations, made with a view to lessen
or which tend to lessen free competition
In the Importation or sale of articles Im
ported into this state, or In the manufac
ture of articles of domestic growth, or
of domestic raw material, to declare un
lawful and void all arrangements, con
tracts, agreements, trusts, or combina
tions between persons or corporations,
designed or which tend to advance, re
duce or control the price of such product
or article to producer or consumer of any
such product or article; to provide for
forfeiture of the charter and franchise
of any corporation, organized under the
laws of this state, violating any of the
provisions of this act, to prohibit every
foreign corporation, violating any of the
provisions of this act, to prohibit every
foreign corporation, violating any of the
provisions of this act, from doing busi
ness In this state; to require the attorney
general of this state to Institute legal pro
ceedings against any such corporations
violating the provisions of this act and
to enforce the penalties prescribed; to
prescribe penalties for any of the vio
lations of this act; to authorize any per
son or corporation, damaged by any such
trust, agreement or combination, to sue
for recovery of such damage, and for
other purposes. Corporations.
II. 789, by Mr. Mitchell—To relieve the
secretary of state for copies of the acts
furnished the Royal library at Brussells
and the department of agriculture of the
United States at Washington. Ways and
means.
H. 800, by Mr. Kennamer—To provide
for the sale of section 16 In township 7,
range 6. Education.
H. 801, By Mr. Hibbard—To create a
lien for advances to make crops In the
county of Moflroe, and to provide for en
forcing tjie same. Revision of~htws.
H. 808. By Mr. Stansel—To subdivide
the several counties of Alabama into
precincts, to incorporate the several prq*
«-*ncts Into municipal corporations with
limited powers, to authorize all precincts
to establish and maintain public schools.
Education. »
H. 803, By Mr. Stansel (by request)—
To provide for the collection and dis
posal of the poll tax and for exemptions
from said tax. Education.
H. 804, By Mr. Stansel (by request)'—
To define who is liable to road services or
road tax. Public roads and highways.
H. 805, By Mr. Darby—To amend an act
to incorporate the Alabama Mutual Fire
Insurance company , and to define its
rights, powers and franchises, approved
Feb. 23, 1895. Corporations.
H. 806, By Mr. Longshore (by request)—
To alter and define the boundary line be
tween Shelby and St. Clair counties, in
the state of Alabama. Counties and
county boundaries.
H. 807, By Mr. Yarborough—To provide
In certain eases for the payment of wit
nesses who appear before the grand Jury
of St. Clair county on subpoena or order
of any court. Local legislation.
H. 808. By Mr. Smith, of Tallapoosa—
To establish a reformatory for youthful
criminals and to convert the Mount Ver
non barracks, situated at Mount Vernon,
In the county of Mobile, into a convict
farm and reformatory to be known as the
Mount Vernon Reformatory of Alabama.
H. 809, by Mr. Smith, of Tallapoosa (by
request)—'To amend section 5 of an act
entitled an act to provide for the holding
of a term of the circuit court of the Fifth
Judicial circuit, at Alexander City, in
Tallapoosa county and to regulate the
same, approved February IS, 1889. Judi
ciary.
H. 810, by Mr. Tunstall—For the preser
vation of game, animals and birds in
beat No. 17, in Hale county. Judiciary.
H. 811, by Mr. Stewart—To prohibit the
sale, giving away or otherwise disposing
of alcoholic, spirituous, vinous or malt
liquors, intoxicating bitters, wlnee or
fruits preserved in such intoxicants,
within five miles of the court house in
the city of Oneonta, Ala., and to repeal all
laws in conflict with the same. Temper
tuive.
H. 812, by Mr. Coleman—To relieve J.
H. KdmonBon, a minor, in the county of
Calhoun, of all disabilities of a minor.
Local legislation.
H. 813, by Mr. Perry—To publish viola
tions of contracts for service or employ
ment, where advancers of money or
property are obtained thereunder, in
Perry county. Local legislation.
BILLS DISPOSED OF.
H. 324—To authorize the court of coun
ty commissioners of Calhoun county to
issue and sell bonds of said county not
exceeding $75,000, for the purpose of pay
ing the outstanding county warrants.
Passed.
H. 322—To require persons operating
or controlling any slot machine, or de
vice, or instrument of like kind or de
scription, by which chances are taken
for anything of any value, to take out
license. Tabled.
H. 285—To establish and maintain a
uniform system of text books for the
public schools of the county of Morgan.
Passed.
H. 165—To establish a separate school
distriot to be known as the Mount Zion
school district, composed of a portion of
DeKalb, Marshall and Etowah counties,
Alabama. Passed.
H. 302—To prohibit the sale, giving
away or otherwise disposing of spiritu
ous, vinous or malt liquors or other in
toxicants as a beverage, and to regulate
the issuing and filling of prescriptions
requiring the use of alcoholic spirits for
medicinal purposes within three miles
of the Geneva academy, in the town of
Geneva, county of Geneva. Passed.
H. 243—For the relief of Lula Houston
Terrell and the heirs of the estate of M.
J. Houston, deceased. Passed.
H. 321—For the relief of John T. Bell,
and asking an appropriation to refund to
him $200, the same being money he paid
Into the state treasury on the 9th day of
January, 1896, for a license to do business
as a wholesale liquor dealer in the town
of Clayton, Barbour county, Alebjma,
but immediately thereafter he FTscon
tlnued business as such wholesale dealer,
made application to have said wholesale
license changed to a retail license, which
application was refused, thereby forcing
him to pay Into the treasury a similar
sum for license to sell liquors at retail
In said town of Clayton, thereby paying
into the treasury money for two licenses
while he operated under but one. Pass
ed.
H. 250—To allow the presiding Judge
of the circuit court in any of the counties
in the Fifth judicial circuit to order the
Jury box In either of such counties to be
re-fllled when in his opinion the box has
become illegal or irregular,* and to pro
vide for re-fflling the box.
This was made a general bill by amend
ments adding nearly all the districts of
the state and excepting certain counties.
IN THE SENATE.
This was a busy day in the senate.
Among other important measures, wo
men were mad/e. eligible to the office pf
county superintendent of education, after
a lively discussion. The bill was intro
duced at the last session by Senator
Brooks, of Geneva, and passed today by
a vote of 18 to 8. The provision, however,
only applies to the counties - of Lamar,
Fayette, Shelby, Geneva, Walker, De
KaM>, St. Clair, Madison, Pike, Coffee
arid Crenshaw. The office is appointive
in these counties.
CODIFIERS' REPORT.
The report of the Joint committee on
the code contains some rather startling
changes In the ruleB of practice of the
supreme court. Among them the report
require* that transcripts fop appeals
from lower courts shall be typewritten,as
heretofore. It also requires the attorney
for the appellant to deposit an estimated
sum of money with the court trying the
case to cover charges of the printer, In
case he desires transcripts, etc., printed
Instead of typewritten. Clerks who fur
nish transcripts get the same pay as
formerly.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Following Is a list of the bills Intro
duced in the senate today:
By Robinson—To define the boundary
line between the counties of Shelby and
St. Clair. Corporations.
By Hawkins—To punish timber depre
dators. Judiciary
By Kilpatrick—To require public gin
nets of cottpn to keep certain books.
Agriculture. _
By Cunningham—To enlarge the char
ter rights of the Birmingham Medical
college. Corporation.
By Mathe-ws—To fix fees for recording
In state and county offices; finance bill
provides that after November 3, 1898,
such fees shall not exoeed the sum of 10
1 cents per hundred words.
By Lee—To preserve order at Pensa
cola camp ground. Local legislation.
By Cunningham—To regulate the In
surance business in this state. Judici
ary.
'This bill comprises a complete revision
and enlargement of the existing state
Insurance laws.
By Sayre—To make the birthday of
General Robert E. Lee a legal holiday.
Judiciary.
This bill Was Introduced by request of
Lomax camp. Confederate Veterans.
Also—'To rpgulate the fees of judge and
clerk of the county court of Montgom
ery. Finance.
It provides that they shall charge no
fees In c&ses where there Is a failure to
convict.
CONVICT COMMITTEE.
The Joint recess convict committee, of
which Senator Qunningham, of Jefferson,
Is chairman, presented a lengthy type
written report Of their' Investigation.
The Teport virtually indorses the Cun
ningham cpnvtet bill, with which the
public 1* fai»nt|h
K if 5->i' uf' u ♦
FORECLOSUREPROCEEOINGS
Having Been. Ordered in the
Union Pacific Matter
i . 1.4 m .if -—
DANGEROUS TO DELAY
i .
Since the Defeat of the funding Bill, Thought
the President,
HENCE THE ORDER TO FORECLOSE
The Government Is Guaranteed to Receive
Not Less Than *48,764,000 by the
Bale ef the Property—Attorney
General Harmon’s Statement.
' ’ "•* ■ ’ ' ' ’* ■
I ’ ' ' ' ?
tVashlirgton, Jan. 22.—The following
statement was given to the press by At
torney General iJarman this evening:
•'Upon the defeat of the funding bill In
the house, the president directed the at
torney general to commence foreclosure
proceedings against the Union Pacific
Railway company, first making the best
arrangements obtainable for the protec
tion of the government's Interest. Fol
lowing the lines Indicated In his last
report, the attorney general began ne
gotiations with the reorganization com
mittee. On Thursday an agreement Was
made which will result in immediate
sicpa iu luiwiVBurc. mu uuici. a u ujcv.t
of th© negotiations was the protection of
the government against the risk of sac
rifice of Its claim by a sale at a price
which would leave nothing substantial
after paying prior liens. This protection
Is now assured by a guarantee that the
government shall receive on Its lien on
the aided portions of the Union Pacific
and Kansas Pacific IlenB, Including the
sinking fund, not less than $45,764,000.
The sale will be public, so that the gov
ernment will receive the benefit of any
higher bidB up to the full amount of Its
claim, principal and Interest. The sum of
$4,500,000 cash was on Thursday deposited
with the United States Trust company,
of New York, by Gen. Lewis Fitzgerald,
chairman of the committee, as security
according to the terms of the agreemeht.
The committee agree to bid par fob the
sinking fund If It Is desired to sell It at
any time before the foreclosure sale.
"Bills Id equity have been prepared,
signed by the attorney general and Hon.
George Hoadley, special counsel, and for
warded to St. Louts, where they will, on
Friday, be presented to Judge Sanborn,
who has jurisdiction In all the districts
and whose consent to their filing is nec-'
essary because the receivers In charge of
the property are made parties defend-:
ant. They are original bills and not croBB
bills In, the pending suits. Whether they!
will prbceed as independent bills ob to be.
ordered to stand as cross bills In the
pending suits will be determlnd by the
Judge, but, in either everit, the result will,
be practically the same, viz:
"The sale of the property under the'
government’s lien as well as under that
of the first mortgagq. The Mils will be
filed In the district of Iowa, Nebraska,
Wyoming, Coflorado and Utah. Separata
bills for the foreclosure of the lien on the
Kansab Pacific are lit course qf prepara
tion. These will be filed In Missouri ahd
Kansas.
“The proposed ararngement was sub
mitted to the government directors be
fore It was closed. They will recom
mend Its adoption. Their general opin
ion was thus expressed:
“The government cannot prudently
longer defer the settlement of this mat
ter. The Union Pacific system has al
ready been much over-taxed and Its rev«
enues. have been permanently reduced.
Reorganisations of allied and neighboring
properties have either been accomplished
or are in train for early consummation
aind the breaking up of the entire Union
Pacific system ha® been and is steadily
progressing. It, therefore, seems to us
inexpedient. If hot dangerous, to negleot
this opportunity of realizing the sum of
fered and thus expose the government to
a continuous depredation of its security.
“It Is believed that there will be higher
bids, but If pot, an estimate show® tha*
crediting amounts already received from
the company, the government will at
last reallie a sum equivalent to the prln*
clpal of the subsidy bonds, with Interest
at about 3 1-3 per cent, from their issue
to the average date of their maturity, or
about 3 4-5 per cent, .from date of issue
to January 1, 1S97.
“The minimum of $45,754,000 guaranteed
the government is in bash, so that all re
lations with the profcel-ty will terminate
upon the confirmation of the foreclosure
sale.
The course to De pursueu wun respeci
to the Central Pacific has not yet been
determined/’
Attorney-General Htlrmon returned,
from New York last night fresh from
fils negotiations with, the reorganization
committee of the Union Pacific Railway
company. Prior to the regular cabinet
meeting today fie explained to President
Cleveland the plan outlined In the state
ment given, which received the Presi
dent's approval. The cabinet was told »t
Its session of what had been done, but no,
formal action by that body was taken.
As Indicated by the statement the set
tlement agreed upon with the reorganiza
tion. committee marks the ending of the
relations between the federal government
and the Union Pacific company. It does
not Interfere, however, with the right
of the government to; Institute proceed
ings to protect Itself In any phases of the
litigation that may fte‘discovered later.
Bo far as the Central Pacific road Is con-.
cerned. matters are not In shape for eet-:
tling its relations with the government,'
but something Is likely to be done In the
near future. The re-organtzatlon com
mittee of the Union Pacific Railway com
pany consist of Louis Fitzgerald, chair
man; Jacob H. Schffr. T. Jefferson Col-:
lldge. ar., Chauncey M. Depew, Marvin
Hughltt and Oliver Ames.
CLAIMS UPON' SPAIN.
Washington, Jan. 22o-In response to
resolutidh'the jprefelderft today transmit
ted to the senate a list of the claims filed
in the department of state by American
citizens against Spain, arising out of the
Insurrection;Hft!th£ Island of Cuba, to
gether with such correspondence relating
to the captura-.of the schooner Competi
tor ahd the persons claiming AmerlcarT
citizenship taken on that vessel as he
does not deem It Incompatible with the
public Interest to communicdte. The list
of cfefePF. Ujcjudes Otphty-ihree and a£
where the
REGULATORS FIRED UPON.
Adalrsvllle, Ky, Jan. 22.—A gang of
whileCapWfrom Prides’ mill were fired on
from hrnhush last nTght while they were
en route to Black Jack, Tenn., to punish
some negroes suspected of theft, J. L.
Conn, the son of a wealthy farmer, was
Instantly killed and. thcfest of the regu
lators estreated. &
8£?\t
AFTER THE ADMINISTRATION
First Olney Is Scored, Then
Cleveland Gets a Turn.
ONE TRIES 10 BULLDOZE
While the Other Draws the Protecting Arm of
His Secretary Around Him.
MORGAN HITS OUT RIGHT AND LEFT
House Passes the Texas Judicial District
Bill Over the President’s Veto—Coop
er and Grosvenor Denounce the
President’s Methods.
Washington, D. C.. Jan. 22.—Questions
of deep interest and importance carne up
before the senate today in a most un
expected manner. First arose the sub
ject of the recognition by congress of
the republic of Cuba, and Mr. Turpie,
democrat, of Indiana, giving notice of
,hls intention to call Senator Cameron’s
resolution on Monday next and to ad
dress the senate on the subject. Mr.
rrurpte adverted to Secretary Olney’s
defiance of congress in the matter of Cu
ba, and said that it reminded him of the
schoolmaster of antiquity, who "whipped
his pupils gently,” or. In the Latin,
"manus mollitor imposant.” He also re
ICUCU IU a lie W puaicmoiM. «**■
alleged compact yesterday between the
present secretary of state and the pre
mier of the next administration that
there would be no action in relation to
Cuba during the present congress.
This statement was bluntly contra
dicted by Senator Sherman as one with
out the slightest foundation. "There has
been," he declared, "no conversation at
all between us on the subject matter,
no expression of opinion.”
After this episode the question of the
arbitration treaty was brought upon the
tapis in an equal informal and chance
manner. Mr. Cullom, republican, of Illi
nois, had earlier in the day sent to the
clerk’s desk for publication in the Rec
ord a large number of letters which he
had received on the subject of the treaty
some favoring and others opposing rat
ification. Mr. Hoar, republican, of Mas
sachusetts, presented other memorials
on the same subject, and took the oppor
tunity of lecturing “a great many of
the wisest and best men in all parts of
the country” for what he termed their
"Intemperate zeal" in favor of ratifica
tion of the treaty. He reminded them,
that the treaty was still in progress of
negotiation and that it was poor diplo
macy while the matter was still in
choate to have "learned, eloquent, heat
ed, impassioned utterance come from
the pulpit, the press and college halls’-’
in favor of instant ratification. He
pointed out that if some modifications
were deemed necessary, and if Mr. Olney
Submitted them to the Marquis of Salis
bury, the marquis might well reply:
"Your people are clamoring for it as it is.
You do not represent your country and
your country’s interest.” He repelled
the insinuation that the senate was to
have spurs Jabbed into it if it did not
dispose of the treaty in twenty-four
hours. Mr. Hoar’s views were sustained
and reinforced by his colleague, Mr.
Lodge, requbllcan, who said that it would
not conduce to the interest of peace be
tween the nations if, in a year or two,
the treaty would develop causes of disa
greement which would- lead to its im
mediate denunciation, and -would Bet
back the wihole plan- of arbitration for
years.
The discussion was continued In some
what the same strain by Senators Sher
man, republican, of Ohio; Cullom, repub
lican, of Illinois; Hawley, republican, of
Connecticut; Sewall, republican, of New
Jersey, and Stewart, populist, of Nevada,
and then Mr. Morgan, democrat, of Ala
bama, interposed an objection that the
whole debate was out of order, and the
matter was dropped.
After this there was a lull of some
twenty minutes in the proceedings, dur
ing which- the military appropriation bill
was under consideration, its passage be
ing Impeded by a proposition to have the
West Point cadets participate in- the
inaugural parade. Before t'hat knot had
been disentangled the morning hour ex
pired and the Nicaragua canal bill -wae
taken up as the unfinished business.
At the threshold another international
question- was injected in the shape of
n wins ■fvrvrv*'.Qgprptnrv nf fit nip trflnR
mlttlng a communication from Mr. Rod
riguez, the minister of the "Greater Re
public of Central America,” protesting
against the various Nicaragua canal bills
before congress as being In violation of
the contract with the Maritime Canal
company. Mr. Morgan plunged into the
discussion In bis usual manner, hitting
right and. left. He insinuated that this
Rodriguez letter had been written at the
Instigation of a greater power (Great
Britain) which always advanced Its end,
but never failed to protect Its subjects.
He charged that the letter was an at
tempt on the part of Nicaragua to collect
$4,000,000 blackmail, and asked what
kind of a senate It was that would ac
cept dictation of this kind without be
ing furnished with the requisite Infor
mation from the state department and
wjthout knowing -wihat passed between
the president and this man. Rodriguez In
the blue room of the White House.
Mr. Hale, of Maine, suggested an ad
journment until Monday so as to secure
any further Information- that might be
forthcoming, but Mr. Morgan warmly re
plied that Mr. Hale must ask that infor
mation of Secretary Olney himself, as
he had found him Inaccessible. Most of
the senators present were desirous of ad
journing over until Monday, but they
lacked a quorum, and so the senate sim
ply adjourned, which means that It will
be called to order again- at noon tomor
row.
IN TBE HOUSE.
Washington, Jan. 22.—This was private
bill day and there was little of public In
terest done In the house.
Mr. Cooper, (dem. of Tex.) called up
and the house passed over the president’s
veto the bill to establish a new division
of the eastern Judicial district of Texas.
The feature of the debate on tills matter
■was a cqustlc criticism by Mr. Grosvenor,
'(rep. of O.) upon the executive order
Iwhlch denied senators and representa
tives access to the president except
through the private secretary of the
president.
A bill was passed authorizing the Gal
veston and Great Northern Railroad
Company to build a railroad through the
Indian territory.
It waa voted to adjourn over from to
day until Monday nei.t.
At 5 o'clock the house took the usual
recess for the consideration of private
pension bills. - -
When Mr. Cooper called up tb« Texas
Judicial district bill he explained that in
the consideration of the bill neither he
nor any member of the committee on the
judiciary r.ad ever heard any objection
to the bill. He had made several at
tempts to see the president while the bill
was before him, in order to set forth the
reasons why the bill should become a
law, and to meet the objections which the
court officers were said to have made, but
which had never been presented to him.
In all these attempts he was unsuccess
ful, the secretary of the president, “who
holds the key to the door by which mem
bers of congress are admitted to the
president," denying him the right as a
representative of the people of his district
to see the executive. On the occasion of
his last visit Mr. Cooper said he had Just
been informed that the bill had been re
turned to the president by the depart
ment of Justice without recommendation.
The secretary told him at first that the
president had not acted upon the bill,
but when Mr. Cooper told him that the
bill had been sent over from the depart
ment of Justice, the secretary made in
quiry and reported that the president
had acted upon the bill, and had a veto
message prepared. Then, Mr. Cooper
said, he again asked for a personal inter
view with the president that he might
present the reasons why the bill should,
become a law. But the secretary r£j«
fused hint access, saying that the presi
dent had made up his mind and that it
would be useless to see him. In view’ of
these facts Mr. Cooper said the reason
advanced by the president was no reason,
and asked the house to pass the bill over
the veto, as recommended by the com
mittee.
Mr. Grosvenor said that from the re
marks made by Mr. Cooper, he inferred
that that gentleman had experienced
some difficulty in seeing the President.
It wras unfortunate for the American peo
ple, he said, that for three years past
few self-respecting representatives of a
respectable constituency w'ould make any
effort to see the President. It was repre
sented that he had issued an order that
no senator nor representative in congress
should present himself in person until he
had bowed before the private secretary
and had received for his errand the sanc
tion of that august personage. "At that
time,’’ continued Mr. Grosvenor, “I was
iii me iiuu&i ui u maucr cuiintciai wmi
my official relations to the President, and
after having concluded It, I filed a state
ment at the executive mansion that I
would never again seek to see the Presi
dent of the United States' under the pres
ent administration. .*,nd I have kept my
word. My constituents never commis
sioned me to percolate my business with
the executive through the clay of a pri
vate secretary."
It was unfortunate, Mr. Grosvenor
went on to say, that the President ex
cluded himself from communication with
members of congress. “He surrounds
himself with a skirmish line of moderate
capacity and keeps himself away from
us. I condemn myself for not having
expressed these views two years ago,
when, if they had been carefully consid
ered by the parties in Interest, there now
might be two or three friends of the
President in congress.”
Mr. Dalzell, republican, of Pennsylva
nia—It will be better in the next admin
istration.
Mr. Grosvenor—I can't speak for that.
But I may express the hope that never
again will there be an administration
which will refuse access to the represent
atives of the people. The people are
greater than the President, and when he
fences himself in he should be careful
that the portals are guarded by the high
est intellects of the country.
Mr. Richardson, democrat, of Tennes
see—I suppose the gentleman speaks as
the advance agent of the new adminis
tration. (Laughter.)
Mr. Grosvenor—I am the advance agent
about as much as the gentleman from
Tennessee was the agent of his party In
that unfortunate affair. (Renewed laugh
ter.)
Addressing himself to the merits of the
bill, Mr. Grosvenor «ald that if the Pres
ident told the truth in his veto message
about the condition of affairs in Texas,
the bill ought not to pass.
The bill was passed—144 to SS—more
than two-thirds voting in the affirmative.
EVENING SESSION.
Washington Jan. 22.—At the evening
session ten private pension bills previous
ly reported from the committee of the
whole were passed. At 10:15 o’clock the
house adjourned until Monday next.
THE NEW BISHOP
For This Diocese Named By His Holi
ness In the Person of Very Rev.
Edw. Pallen, D. D.,
Baltimore, Md., Jan. 22.—A special ca
blegram from Rome states that the Pope
h«s selected the Very Rev. Felix Hente
meyer, of the Benedict Order, Vicar Gen
eral of the Vicarite apostolic of North
Carolina, to be bishop of Wilmington,
Del., as the successor of Bishop Alfred
A. Curtis, who last year forwarded his
resignation to Rome.
It is also stated that Very Rev. Edward
Pallen, D. D., president of Mount St. Ma
ry's seminary and college at Emmittes
burg, Md., has been selected by the Pope
as successor to Bishop Jeremiah O’Sulli
van, of Mobile, who died August 10 last.
THE POST DISCONTINUED,
And One of Venezuela’s Greatest Thorns
Has Been Removed Prom Her Side.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 22.—By direc
tion of Lord Salisbury, the military post
of the Uruan, In British Guiana, which
led to acute troubles with Venezuela,
has been discontinued. An Indian post
holder has been substituted for the po
lice garrison In obedience to the direc
tions from the colonial office In London,
and one of the greatest thorns In Ven
ezuela’s side has been removed.
The news of the abandonment of the
post reached the state department today
through the Demerara newspapers which
made the announcement January 6. The
colonists are philosophical over the set
back and claim that the Indian post
holder will constitute as effective a
maintainor of their territorial title as
the soldiers, -who will not be exposed to
the frequently malaria Influences of the
locality. It Is also stated that the In
demnity secured from Venezuela on ac
count of what was known as the Uruan
Incident, has been apportioned among
the British involved, Inspector* Barns
and Baker getting $2,500 ench and tlhe
constables $500 each.
OREGON’S MUDDLE.
Salem, Ore., Jan. 22.—Both houses met
this morning. Seven *were present In one
and thirty-one In the other. The former
adjourned until 2 p. in. tomorrow. The
second house- the legality of which Is
questioned, adjourned until Monday, to
which time the senate also adjourned-.
The opinion prevails that the senate will
not recognize the second house, which
Is known as the Mitchell organization.
STILL BALLOTING.
Pierre, S. D.. Jap. 22.—The ballot of the
legislature today resulted: Kyle 30;
Lbucks 15: Plowman 11; Goodykoontc *:
Primer 1: Keller 2: Weeks 1; Bowler 1.
Phpe. fuslonlzta were absent. Pickier 60;
a radical mmm
Based on Slow, but Healthful In
- creased Demand
IS THE TREND OF TRADE
An Unu^'tlly Long List of Business Embarrass
ments Continues to Be a Feature.
THp MARKET FOR SECURITIES BETTER
o'
jf
n .nber of Hands Employed Larger, *11
-c Industries Considered—Bessemer Fig
^ Slightly Lower — Increase ol
f Iron Manufactories
New York, Jan. 22.—Bradstreet’s to
morrow will say: The most encouraging
feature of the trade situation this week
is the increased demand from manufac
turers for wool. The decision of print
cloth manufacturers to curtail the out
put will emphasize recent sales of the
heavy surplus and promises a better
market. To these may be added the in
crease In the volume of domestic bank
clearings, a general steatdiness of prices
and the healthfulnees of general trade
in almost all departments. Conserva
tism in granting credits and the pref
erence of retailers and others to buy
oftener, but in small quantities, continue
to mark the course of foulness as not be
fore for years. Demand is increasing in
almost all lines, with few exceptions,
annougn very slowly. A radical improve
ment in the near future, based on a slow
but healthful Increase in the consump
tive demand, Is, in the absence of un
foreseen obstacles, almost a certainty.
Commercial travelers are reported very
generally out on the road, yet the volume
of business continues small and collec
tions In many instances are unsatisfac
tory. The more active demand Is for
shoes, hats, groceries, hardware, dry
goods and drugs; It Is true that at
such centers as Chicago and St. Louis,
at the west, Baltimore, Philadelphia,
New York and Boston, at the east, busi
ness continues along very conservative
lines. Memphis, Nashville and Galveston
continue their exceptionally favorable re
ports as to demand for staples. Pacific
coast ports annouce unusually heavy or
ders for merchandise from Alaska, and
an improving trade with China and Ja
pan. Total bank clearings aggregate
$1,042,000,000 this week, a decrease of one
half of 1 per cent, from last week, but an
increase of 6 per cent, over the third
week of January, 1896.
Prices appear to Include few, if any,
that are higher than a week ago; while
flour, wheat, corn, lard, crude petroleum,
tin, Bessemer pig iron and steel billets
are lower. Wool remains firm, at prac
tically unchanged prices, but Is likely to
advance If the present demand continues.
Leather Is also firm and unchanged, as
are lumbers, cotton, print cloths, pork,
coffee and sugar.
An unusually long list of business em
barrassments continues a feature of the
state of trade of the week, the total for
the past six days being 429, or 49 less than
last week and 88 more than In the week
a year ago.
DUN’S REVIEW.
New York, Jan. 22.—R. G. Dun & Co.
will say tomorrow In their weekly re
view of trade; There Is more business,
though not at better prices. It is in
teresting that almost all prioes which
change at all are lower than a week ago
and yet business Is unquestionably
larger. There Is larger production, but
as yet not as much increase in consump
tion, and there Is larger buying of ma
terials, but at present only because bet
ter prices are expected In the future. A
few conspicuous failures during the week
have had no material influence. The
market for securities Is slightly stronger
and yet there is very little doing. The
number of hands employed, all Indus
tries considered, Is slightly larger than a
week ago, without adverse change In the
rate of wages. All apprehension of for
eign disturbance of money markets has
passed away, but there is still great cau
tion in making loans. It is a mistake
to reckon these as symptons of depres
sion. On the contrary, in Fplte of the
lower range of prices in Important in
dustries, the conditions all Indicate larger
production and a consumption Increasing,
not as yet largely, but Bteadlly.
The earnings of railroads In January
have been 4.4 per cent, smaller than last
year.
Wheat, corn and cotton exports are the
key of the financial situation, and during
the past week wheat has declined %
cents and corn % cents, while cotton Is
unchanged. The woolen Industry Is as
slow as ever, and no real Improvement
appears In, the demand for goods, al
though owing to the lateness of the sea
son there la a little more doing, both in
spring and in winter goods, without
quotable change In prices.
The Iron industry is engaged in set
tling relative prices and the slow opera
tion retards business in many branches,
since the future of prices Is uncertain.
Bessemer pig Is a trifle lower, at $10.40,
at Pittsburg, and grey forge at $9.40,
though no further declines has occurred
In eastern markets, or at Chicago. But
the competition of new concerns tempted
to manufacture nails by the high prices
recently maintained, causes slightly
lower sales of wire nails at $1.36 and
Of cut nails at $1.26. Jhe bar association
has been In session to consider the reduc
tion of steel bare to one cent and in large
contracts even lower, and the billet as
sociation has again been called together
to meet on the 29th, although there Is no
prospect of Its reorganization, and bil
lets are selling at $16.25 at Pittsburg.
The Increase In manufacturing is per
haps more definitely shown than In any
other way by the production of coke,
which steadily increases. 9,817 ovens be
ing in blast, against 8,173 Idle, and the
week’s output 100,886 tons, Is over double
the output of October 1.
Failures for the week have been 409
In the United States, against 873 last
year and 65 In Canada, against 61 last
year.
WHISKY IN OIL CANS.
• Jackson, Miss.,Jan. 22.—Lawrence Mad
den. a white man, was Jailed today, the
grand jury having indicted him for run
ning a ’’blind tiger.” His premises were
searched today, and no barrels, jugs or
bottles being found, the sheriff tasted the
contents of numerous oil cans, finding
all full of mean whisky. Several gallons
were confiscated and poured out In the
street. _
THOMAS B. GRAHAM.
Jackson, CMIss., Jan. 22—Hon. Thomas
B. Graham, chancellor of the Sixth ’Mis
sissippi district for twenty yeans, died
at his home in Forest, Miss., last night
of la grippe, aged 64. He was born In
Sumter county,- Alabama.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, JANUARY 24, 1897.-TWELVE PAGES. NUMBER ii
WENT THROUGH THE SENATE
Anti-Pool Bill Passed Without a
Dissenting Vote.
GOES TO THE HOUSE NEXT
And Will Come Up There Monday—Strong
Sentiment Favoring the Bill.
TUSKALOOSA'S COURT OFFICERS ARE
Homed in the Caucusand Elected in Joint
Session—Maringo’s Day in the Hours.
Eills Introduced in Both
Branches.
Montgomery. Ala., Jan. 23.—(Staff Cor
respondence.)—The democratic Joint cau
cus assembled in the hall of the lower
house today at 1:30, and nominated Hon.
J. J. Mayfield for Judge of the Tusca
loosa c4ty court, and Hon. J Manly Fos-'
ter solicitor of said court. Mr. Mayfield
was nominated by Senator Moody, and
Mr. Foster by Hon W. W. Brandon, both
without remarks. These officers were
elected by acclamation, as there were no
other nominations made. Immediately
after adjournment of the joint caucus
there was a Joint session of the house
and senate and the nominations were
ratified by election.
TODAY'S SESSION.
This was a slow day in the house as
far as measures of a general interest are
concerned. A local bill to regulate the
holding of court in Marengo county en
gaged almost the entire session today.
The provisions of the bill asked for the
establishment of a court house and Jail
at Demopolls, The bill was opposed by
Mr. Meador, the junior member from
that county, and after much discussion
was defeated.
The special committee to investigate
the normal schools of the state reported
today, and made recommendations based
upon their investigation. They stated
that it is alleged there 4s an. unjust dis
crimination made against the free pupils
of these institutions in favor of those
who pay. The state now makes a liberal
donation and this complaint was unex
pected, and is believed by many of the
members to be ungrounded.
The following new bills were Introduc
ed in the house today:
BILLS INTRODUCED.
H. 831. By Mr. Love (by request)—To
prevent animals from running at large
in a certain district in Autauga coumy.
Agrucuiture.
H. 832. Also—To amend section 1 of an
act for the protection of land and prop
erty against the depredations of live
stock in portions of precincts 1. 2, 3, 4, 5,
and 6, In Autauga county. Agriculture.
H. 833. By Mr. Lavender—To amend an
act entitled an act to prescribe the mode
and time of advertisement of property for
sale levied upon under execution issued
on the judgement of justices and under
attachments issued by such officers, and
to fix the place of sale, approved Feb.
22, 1869. Judiciary.
H. 834. By Mr. Stewart—To Incorporate
the Garden City Improvement and Immi
gration company, of Garden City, Blount
county, Alabama. Incorporations.
H. 835. By Mr. Fle’wellen—To establish
the Fitzpatrick school district in Bul
lock county. Education.
H. 836. By Mr. Cole—To require rail
road companies to establish and keep
ticket office, agent and waiting rooms in
Incorporated cities and towns. Com
merce and common carriers.
H. 837. By Mr. Brothers (by request)—
To amend sections 2, 3 and 11, of an act
entitled an act to establish a normal
school for the education of white male
and female teachers, at Jacksonville, in
Calh<*m county, approved Feb. 22, 1881.
Education.
H. 839, By Mr. Brown, of Colbert—To
provide for the inspection and sale of
illuminating oils In the state of Alabama.
Judiciary.
H. 840, By Mr. Pitts—To authorize the
council of Selma to tlx the compensation
of the commissioners of the sinking fund
commission, and such compensation to
be paid out of the sinking fund. Dallas
delegation.
H. 841, By Mr. Beeson—To amend an
act to amend an act to establish the city
court of Gadsden, approved Feb. 18. 1891,
by amending certain sections thereof, ap
proved Dec. 14, 1894, by amending section
three (3) of said amending act. Revision
ot laws.
H. 842. By Mr McCollum—To prevent
the use of wheels of fortune, chance
games and rafflings or devices of like
kind. Revision of laws.
H. 843, By Mr. Wood, ot Henry—To
amend an act entitled an act to estab
lish. a separate school district to be
known as Reynolds school district In
Henry county. Education.
H. 844, By Mr. Abercrombie—To exempt
from taxation the Wallace school fund,
held In trust by the township trustees
In township 7, range 9, Lawrence county,
Alabama, for the benefit of the public
schools of said township. Education.
H. 846, By Mr. Hill (by request)—To
regulate the passage of vehicles on pub
lic roads ot Montgomery county. Local
legislation.
H 847. by Mr Hill (by request)—To au
thorize Hugh Stewart, his heirs and as
signs to establish, maintain and operate
a public ferry on the Alabama river with
in the police jurisdiction of the city of
Montgomery. Local legislation.
H. 848, by Mr. Waller, of Montgomery—
To fix the terms of office of the mayor
and aldermen and other city officers of
the city of'Montgomery. Corporations.
H. 849. by Mr Dreyspring (by request)
—To relievo Carrie J. Bullock of the dis
abilities of non-age. Lnoal legislation.
IT. 850. by Mr. Kyle—To amend section
one (1) of an act entitled an act to estab
lish three separate school districts In
Cullman county to be known as the
Jones Chapel School district, the Coun
ty Line School district. In Cullmnn coun
ty, Alabama, and-to provide for the elec
tion of a board of trustees for each of
said school districts, with certain duties
and powers, approved February 18, 1891,
Revision of laws.
IT. 851, Also—To make the offices of
the town clerk and marshal of New Deca
tur, Ala, elective, and to provide the
time and manner of their election. Re
vision of laws.
H. 832, by Mr. Stansel—To regulate the
practice in the circuit and city courts
of this state in reference to the prepara
tion of the causes for trial, and the dis
position of demurrers to complaints and
to other pleadings. Judiciary.
H. 853, Also—To regulate the reinstate
ment. of injunctions, writs of ne-exeat
and attachments, when an appeal is
taken from any interlocutionary or final
decree dissolving the same. . Judiciary.
H. 854, Also—To reduce the coats of
litigation aud to regulate the summon
Ingot witnesses In the circuit courts and
city courts of this state. Judiciary.
It. 855, Also—To amend section "844 of
the code. Revision of laws.
II. 856, by Mr. Smith, of Tallapoosa—
To regulate the assessment and collec
tion of delinquent taxes In Tallapoosa
county. Local legislation.
H. 857, also—To allow' stock to run at
large In Wallnutt Hili beat No. 11, In
Tallapoosa county. Local legislation.
H. 858. also—To allow J. ,T. Evans, of
Tallapoosa county, to peddle in the state
of Alabama without paying a license
tax. Ways and means,
H. 859, by Mr. Appling—To prevent
stock from running at large in certain
parts of Walker county. Agriculture.
H. 860, by.Mr. Palmer—To authorize
and require the county treasurer of Win
ston county," Alabama, to register all
claims against said county which have
not been registered, as required by law.
Local legislation.
H. 861, by Mr. Waller, of Hale—To
amend section 2,720 of the code of Ala*
bama. Judiciary.
H. 862, by Mr. Heflin—To regulate the
sale of spirituous, vinous and malt
liquors, within the corporate limits of the
town of LaFayette, Alabama. Temper
ance.
H. 863, also—To regulate the sale of
spirituous, vinous and malt liquors with
in the corporate limits of the Town of
Lanett, Alabama. Temperance.
H. 864, by Mr. Newman—To provide for
and regulate the pay of state witnesses
In Chambers county.—Local legislation.
Hon. A. Y. Glover, of Greene, today
made a strong fight for the Marengo
county bill for regulating the tiipe and
manner of holding court In that county.
Mr. Glover Is not aggressive as a rule,
but he Impressed the members today with
the fact that there Is spirit behind his
genial manner. Ho was enthusiastic In
his support of the measure and made a
strong argument because he believed It
to be the wishes of the people of Marengo
that Demopolis should have.a court house
and jail.
IN THE SENATE.
In the senate today the Cunningham
convict bill was made a special older for
next Wednesday, the first thing after the
report of standing committees. Dr. Cun
ningham will open the discussion. He
is primed and cocked for a spirited fight.
There will be opposition to the bill, but
Dr. Cunningham Is sanguine of success
He has devoted much time to the prepar
ation of this measure and will not easily
be persuaded to lay down his hand. The
measure stems to be popular and i; is be
lieved now that with some amendments
the bill will become a law.
ui-iji. Ann-ruui. mbu
The opposition to gambling Is at fever
heat in the legislature. The race-pool
rooms were knocked out today as far as
the senate end of the hill is concerned.
The bill went to a third reading and 15
ayts recorded for its passage; nays 0.
The following bills were introduced by
President Sayre today:
By leave Senator Sayre was allowed to
introduce the following bills after the
call of the districts was over:
To fix the term of the mayor, aldermen
and other city officers of Montgomery.
This bill provides that the city officials
who shall he elected on the first Tuesday
in May, 1897, shall begin at the expiration
of the term of the present incumbents
and shall hold until the third Tuesday in
October, 1899; and this applies to all offi
cers elected by the city council and ap
pointed by the mayor and chief of police.
To.further regulate the business of the
building ar.d loan associations. It re
quires detailed annual reports made to
the auditor, from whom non-resident as
sociations, having not less than $100,000,
shall also take out license; judiciary.
The provisions of this bill, however, do
not apply to those associations, which
transact business sales within couniie&
where they are incorporated.
Senator Pettus moved reconsideration
of the vote l>v which the bill making
women eligible to the office of superin
tendent of education in certain counties
of the state passed on yesterday, and a
lively discussion ensued, in which the best
talent of the senate was drawn out.
Among the debaters were Cunningham.
Hall. Pettus, Moody, Hogue, Kilpatrick
and Brooks—author of the bill. The dis
cussion was cut short by a special order
and a vote on Senator Pettus’ motion was
not reached.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
By Day—To fix recording fets for pro
bate court of Morgan county ; judiciary.
By Bethune—To amend section 2 of an
act to tlx the terms of several officers
of the state, approved February 2, 1893;
judiciary. It provides that the state com
mislsoner of agriculture shall hold office
for the term of two years, from December
1 next after his election, and vacancies
shall be tilled by appointment by the
Oovernor for the unexplred' term until
his successor is elected and qualified.
By Bethune—To punish train wrecking;
judiciary. The hill provides, on convic
tion, that the punishment shall be death
or Imprisonment for not less than ten
years.
By Smith (by request!—To provide for
the control ar.d education of orphans
and certain other children under 14 years
of age; judiciary.
By Boykin—To authorize Hugh Stewart
to establish a ferry on the Alabama with-,
in the police jurisdiction of the city of
Montgomery; judiciary. This ferry is to
be located at the extension of Lizzie
street, and Its franchises continue for
fifteen years the nates of ferriage by the
county board of revenue.
By Matthews—To give greater security
to the transfer of property; judiciary.
'wants her salary.
Washington, Jan 23.—Suit was begun
here today against Richard Mansfield,
the actor, by Miss Ethel Douglass, said
to be Ethel Sprague, granddaughter of
Chief Justice Chase, to recover eleven
weeks' salary due her by Mr. Mansfield.
Miss Douglass claims a contract with
Mansfield to pay her $50 a week as a
mernher of h!s company, and that,Mans
field refused her services and also refused
payment thereafter from April 18 to
JUne 20, 1806, a period of nine weeks, and
that an additional two weeks' salary for
a prior date Is due and unpaid.
A BONANZA VEIN FOUND.
Atlanta, (3a., Jan. 23.—Miners who came
In tonight from Herralson county report
that a bonanza vein was struck In the
Royal mine Thursday afternoon. A gang
was working In a cross-cut, running off
from the 150 foot level, when a vein car
rying $300 In gold to the ton was found.
Work has been pushed on this night and
day and it appears to be a great find.
There is much excitement In the camp.
The Vein on which the main shaft goes
down Is $10 ore.
QUEEN LIL IN WASHINGTON.
Washington, .Tan. 23.—Ex-Queen Llliou
kalanl, of Hawaii, arrived In Washing
ton from Boston this afternoon, and is
located at the Shoreham. If the ex
queen had any intention of calling on
President Cleveland today to pay her re
spects, that purpose was frustrated by
the President’s departure last night on
a ducking expedition. It is not known
how long the representative of the late
Hawaiian dynasty will remain here.
OPPOSED TO THE BILL.
Washington, Jan. 23.—The senate com
mittee on postofilces and post-roads this
morning held another hearing on the
Loud bill, which cuts off serial publica
tions from the benefits oX second-class
postage rates. Those present Were
’ chiefly opposed to the bill.
Thirteen Prisoners Liberated in
Honor of His Majesty.
TWO CITIZENS OF FRANCE
Arrested and Thrown Into Cabanas Fortress by
Order of General Weyler.
A SPANISH GUNBOAT DESTROYED
Successful Attack of IusurgentB and Much
Damage Done — Attorney General
Springs a Surprise in the
Three Friends Case.
Havana, Jan. 23.—Tills being the name
day of King Alfonso it was celebrated
here in the usual way by services in the
cathedral in honor of the king's patron
saint and by social functions. In ac
cordance with the custom on this day,
a number of prisoners were given their
liberty. It was thought that a number of
the Americans now confined in Cuban
prisons would be released in honor of the
day, but this expectation was disappoint
ed. There were only thirteen men set
free in this city, and they were only given
their liberty provisionally. Three of
them had been confined In the state pris
on, eight in Moro Castle and two in the
Cabanas fortress. They were charged
with various offenses, and all of them
are comparatively unknown. Several
wounded rebels belonging to the rebel
band by Urras, who w'ere hidden in a
house in the outskirts of Havana were
arrested last night. All of them were
brought here and placed in a military
hospital.
Capt.-Gen. Weyler Is now at Union de
Reyes, province of Matanzas. The Mar
quis de Ahumada, Gen. Weyler's seitundo
cabo, or second in command; Marquis
de Palmerola, secretary of the govern
ment and the olvll governor, left for that
place on an express train this morning.
They will meet and hold a conference
with the captain general.
CITIZENS OF FRANCE.
Arrested and Sent to Cabanas Fortress—
Valuable Plantations Destroyed.
Havana, Jan. 23.—Via Key West, Fla.,
Jan. 23.—Salvador and Pedro Laborde,
brothers, citizens of France and owners
of an estate In Jobo were sent to.Cabanas
fortress under Weyler's orders for grind
ing cane against his commands and also
made responsible for the defeat the Span
iards suffered in their recent fight which
occurred on that estate.
Ana Sotolongo, a lady imprisoned as a
political suspect in the Paula hospital,
managed to escape last night.
All the buildings of the valuable es
tate, Sail Lino, in the Cienfuegos district,
owned by Lino Montalve, has been burn
ed. The loss Is estimated at over a mil
lion dollars. Over eight million arrobas
or quarters of cane were burned.
The sugar estate Constancia, belong
ing to Marquis Apezteguia and heavily
mortgaged to an American syndicate,
was also burned.
It is said that Spanish troops are re
sponsible for the damage.
ARE THEY PIRATES?
United States Attorney General Springs
a Surprise In the Three Friends Case.
Washington, Jan. 23.—If the sensation
al stories in certain New York newspa
pers regarding the Cuban filibustering
tug Three Friends, on her last voyage,
training a Hotchkiss gun on a Spanish
gunboat and firing at that vessel have
any foundation in truth, the attorney
general of the United States government
declares that the Three Friends is amena
ble to the laws of piracy and her officersl
and crew are liable to be surrendered
and punished as piyates.
Attorney General Harmon, it is offi
cially stated today, is considering the ad^
visabllity of instituting proceedings
against the Three Friends on that charge.
The attorney general was originally of
the opinion that the Three Friends had
not committed a piratical act, even as
suming that the reports published of her
exchange of shots with the Spanish ves
sel were true. But a careful considera
tion of the law and decisions on similar
cases had made him doubt his primary
view.
In order to expediate the case of the
Three Friends the attorney-general has
prepared an application to present to the
United States supreme court for a writ
of certiorari on the United States circuit
court at New Orleans for the transfer of
the ease to the supreme court so that the
latter tribunal may pass on Judge
Locke’s decision, given at Jacksonville.
Judge Locke held that the government
in its bill of Ubel against the Three
Friends did not show that the vessel had
violated any law. He gave the govern
ment ten days to amend Its libel and
declared that unices this was done, he
would dismiss the application.
SPANISH GUNBOAT BURNED.
Brave Attack of Cubans With a Success
ful Result.
Kei' West, Fla., Jan. 23.—Havana ad
vices received In Key West are to the ef
fect that the Spanish gunboat Cometa
has been captured and burned by the In
surgents.
The Cometa, one of the most powerful
of the smaller Spanish vessels in Cuban
waters, has been cruising near Cardenas
to prevent the landing of filibustering ex
pedition?. For some time she has been
accustomed to anchor at night oft Screia
Morena. The place where the gunboat
anchored was favorable for an attack
from shore, and the insurgents determ
ined to capture her. Last Tuesday night
they opened on the vessel with a twelve
pound Hotchkiss gun. The vessel was
struck several times and badly damaged.
While the crew was In confusion boats
loaded with insurgents left the shore and
the Cometa Vvas boarded. A desperate
hand-to-hand fight took place on the
deck of the gunboat, the Cubans using
the machete with deadly effect. Finally,
after the Spanish commander and half
his men had been killed the survivors
surrendered. The vessel was then burned.
r — 1
A VICTOR'S:! Fort THReS’FRIENDS.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 23.—In the case
of the United States vs. the steamer
Three Friends, libel for forfeiture for the
December trip of the steamer, an order
was made 'by Judge Doolie, of the United
States court this morning sustaining the
exceptions of the respondents upon the
game grounds as set forth tn the order
on the libel for the trip of last May. and
the libelant was ^granted permission to
amend the libel,, acid If the amendment
Is not filed wltlfy^^v0!'diays the libel is
to stand dismissed. •,
An Unusual Scene Reported
From England’s Metropolis.
LIBERALS UP IN ARMS
Will U.ge an Investigation of the Jameson
Raid and South Africa Affair,
THREE-QUARTERS OF A MILLION DOLLARS
Have Been Raised for Plague-Strioken In
dia-Great Preparation for the Queen’s
Jubilee-Mr. and Mrs. Bayard
Off To Sandringham.
London, Jan. 23.—(Copyright by the
Sun Printing and Publishing Associa
tion.)—All London is of the opinion that
the weather is the most Important of hu
man interests today.
Since noon yesterday there have been
several brisk flurries of snow with the
result that there is a thin blanket aver
aging an inch In thickness In the parks
and gardens of the metropolis. So ex
traordinary is this in London that the
papers describe It as a blizzard, and ev
erybody is talking about the terrific snow
storm. Sensational telegrams from all
parts of Great Britain describe in vivid
language the ravages of the snow. The
must siurmng mspaicn oi an comes irum
a point In the far north of Scotland when
a rash correspondent affirms that the
snow lies six Inches deep on the level. In
credulous Londoners accept such state
ments only with a grain of salt. It is
more than five years since snow has been
seen in London in the present quantities
and its appearance Is regarded In the
nature of a phenomenon. It has, Indeed,
worked a wonderful transformation of
the blackest, gloomiest city In all the
world. London architects, even in the
brightest weather, wears the universal
hue of ashes and charcoal and its most
famous buildings are dressed in perpet
ual mourning. Now in spite of towering
skies, the city has put on a gala attire
and the solemn old town is almost gay.
Even as I write, the clouds have sudden
ly broken and a flood of rosy light is
bathing the great dome of^St. Paul's in
wonderful splendor. It Is no longer an
Imposing black silhouette against the
sky, but a great ping glowing dome
which seems to shine with an incandes
cence all its own.
Tuirting to a more sordid and pre
sumably important event, the opening of
parliament, I can find nothing to say
of even moderate Interest to American
readers. It is expected that the session
will prove of considerable domestic im
portance, but the only topic In sight
whlch-is likely ^to attract the attention
of outside observers is the solemn but
Inevitably farelal investigation of the
Jameson raid and South African affairs
generally. The secretary for the colonies
on Wednesday made a virtuous show
of anxiety to obtain the re-appointment
without delay of a parliamentary com
mittee of inquiry. He waited in the
house of commons Wednesday until an
hour after which opposed business could
not be taken up and then moved the
re-appointment of the committee. Sev
eral members objected and the minister
with a great show of surprise and irri
tation then postponed his motion. When
it comes on again, probably at the end
of next week, there Is likely to be a tre
mendous row, the liberals being firmly
convinced that the government is anxi
ously waiting for a decent excuse to
break their solemn pledges to make a
thorough inquiry. Mr. Chamberlain may
protest as much as he likes, but it Is
undeniable that a majority of her maj
esty’s ministers do not want this inquiry
proceeded with and they have managed
to let their supporters In the house of
commons know something of their feel
ings. Otherwise, there would not be the
strong movement against an Inquiry
which Is now observable In the govern
ment party. The friends of Mr. Rhodes,
too, have not been active and they are
both numerous and influential. The re
sult of all this is that everything one
hears people asking what is the good
of this inquiry? Mr. Rhodes made mis
takes, but surely ihe can condone them by
bravery in the field during the rebellion
in. Rhodesia, and sagacious diplomacy
with the Matabele, which, as much as
anything, brought about peace.
Furthermore the Rhofles party never
tire of urging that a condition of the
Cape Colony legislature has already in
vestigated the matter and probed It ns
far as desirable to British Interests to
go. It is difficult to see how It Is possible
In decency to avoid such form or pre
tence of Investigation, but if anybody
expects that the real facts regarding this
great national crime against a friendly
state is at last to be brought to light they
assuredly will be disappointed. Mr.
Rhodes, in an interview printed today,
virtually acknowledges what he denied
a year ago on his word of honor, namely
complicity In the organization of the
force of raiders. The only point he now
denies Is that he gave Jameson the final
order io march. It Is hardly necessary
to repeat what I have several times said
In this connection, that Cecil Rhodes will
never be punished by any British trib
unal for his now confessed guilt In con
nection with this great conspiracy.
The blue books issued this week detail
ing the progress of the negotiations be
tween the powers In reference to the
Turkish question at last brings official
confusion of the news first made public
In cable dispatches to the Sun early in
December that Europe had finally agreed
to use force If necessary to secure the In
troduction of reforms In the Ottoman
empire. It Is shown to the credit of Lord
Salisbury that he persistently urged upon
the continental governments the neces
sity of, resorting to coercion until a sud
den change In the attitude of the czar late
In November at length brought success to
his efforts. I have reason to believe
that the situation has now advanced con
siderably beyond the point Indicated in
the dispatches which Lord Salisbury has
made public. There have also been side
Issues involved In the understanding
which has been arrived at between cer
tain of the powers, to which, of course,
no reference has been made. For In
stance, It Is believed that the czar who
held the key to the whole situation did
not grant his assent to coercion until the
part which Russia would be allowed to
play in such operations had been clearly
conceded by Great Britaiin. The belief
expressed In some quarters that Russia
will still manage to prevent an actual in
terference with the sultan Is not shared
In the best Informed circles. It Is fuily
believed on the Other band that genuine
reforms will be actually forced upon Tur
key and that too, as spaedlly as the slow
moving diplomatic machinery will allow.
Public Interest In the plague and famine
lo India oontinuea unabated. The re
lief subscriptions for the famine suffer
ers, now amounting In London to nearly
three-quarters of a million dollars, Beem
more generous, but thus far greater.
The criticisms of Lord Hamilton, secre
tary of state for India, and government
authorities have generally been so sharp
that they at lest have been spurred to
the greatest activity. The cause and ef
fect are so widely separated in point of
time, however, that many thousands will
undoubtedly perish before the relief
measures will prove adequate. The
spread of the plague also continues with
out serious check. There have been
some hopeful reports this week in re
gard to the discovery of means of fight
ing the dreadful infection. It Is an
nounced that Dr. Yersin, the discoverer
of the plague baclllis and of the serum
for use against the plague, lias ready for
immediate use only a quantity of the
serum taken from a single horse. With
this he has already inoculated twenty
seven persons, of whom twenty-three
were saved. He will have in a month a
supply of serum from a hundred small
tonklnez horses. This will be sufficient to
inoculate 18,000 persons, and he can reck
on on obtaining as much every month.
He left for Nyah Thran, in Anarn, on
December 21, and while passing through
India was invited to stay In Bombay.
He declined, as he had no serum, but
he will return after he has obtained
some In Nyah Thran.
Ambassador and Mrs. Bayard dnove
to St. Pancras, whence they took a train
for a visit to the ITince and Princess of
Wales at Sandringham Mr. Bayard Is
naturally much pleased with this mark
of distinction, at the hands of the prince,
for It has never happened before, so it
Is said, that an American minister has
been entertained as a personal guest by
the heir to the throne. It Is indeed an
other compensation, in addition to those
he recently mentioned, which more than
offset the criticisms of those of his coun
trymen who do not fully approve of his
attitude as the representative In Great
Britain of the American people.
Preparations, serial and otherwise, ara
now in mu swing z<-r me .ceieorauuii ui
the queen’s sexagesimal. That Is the de
signation which a noble peer writes to
the Times should be the proper term In
which to describe next June’s Jubilee.
Hotel quarters are being already engaged
and speculators are buying up rights to
windows on the probable routes of the
processions. Several big hotels have al
ready received intimation that their best
quarters will be required for the use of
such of the queen's guests as will not be
accommodated in Buckingham palace
and the other royal establishments. In
quiries were never before so numerous, at
the United States embassy in behalf of
American women who desire to be pre
sented at what is generally believed will
be the last drawing room the queen will
ever hold.
There has been quite a budget of dis
coveries in connection with the Roentgen
ray Investigations reported from the con
tinent within a few days. That reported
by Prof. Friedrich to the Vienna acade
my of science is the most important. The
professor discovered certain black rays
that issue from the vacuum tube and
pass through the human body. Photo
graphs produced by means of these rays,
which the professor calls critical rays,
are not the same when taken nit a living
body as off a dead body. Photographs
of living hands show the skeleton as In
the Roentgen photographs, while In pho
tographs of the hand of a dead person
the hand appears In full, showing all the
fleshy intlgument the bones remaining
invisible. It is thought that by means
of these rays It can be ascertained wheth
er a person Is really dead. The use of the
Roentgen rays as a hair exterminator. Is
also revived. Dr. Freund, also of Vienna,
tried them upon a boy whose spine was
hidden by an abundant crop of hair. Dr.
Freund turned the rays upon the boy’s
back and the superfluous hair vanished,
roots and all. The hoy, no longer an In
fant phenomenon, has been shown to the
medical society of Vienna and photo
graph’s of his condition before and after
the experiment are circulating in the city.
The Prussian government has appropri
ated *12,000 forR -entgen my experiments
during the current year.
"" the turfT
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Jan. 23.—Cloudy weqther
and 5,000 people at the track marked to
day's racing here. The feature of the
day was the *1,500 merchants’ handicap,
nine furlongs, won by the top-weight,
Laureate, who carried 119 pounds. Only
two favorites won, the bookmakers beat
ing the public.
First Race—Seven furlongs. Nina
Louise, 88 (Dorsey). 1 to 2, won; Paladin
second, Parmesan third. Time, 1:29%.
Second Race—For 2-year-olds, three
furlongs. 'Miss Patrick, 112 (Turbiville), 2
to 1, won; Georgia C second, Belle Fos
ter II third. Time, 0:37%.
Third Race—Selling, mile and a quar
ter. Otho, 98 (Everett), 10 to 1, won; Light
foot second, Partner third. Time, 2:12%.
Fourth Race—"Merchants’ handicap, *1.
500, a mile and a furlong. Laureate. 119
(Garner), 7 to 2, won; Cotton King sec
ond Judge Steadman third. Time, 1:56%.
Fifth Race—Selling, one mile. Tragedy.
100 (Everett). 3 to 1, won; Bob Clampett
second, Waldlne third. Time, 1:44.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs, selling. Willie
W., 102 (T. Burns), 30 to 1, won; Senator
Morrell second. Anna Mayes third. Time,
1:15%
TOMORROW'S ENTRIES.
New Orleans, Jan. 23.—(Monday’s en
tries:
First Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
selling. Strathreel, 100; Hillsboro, 102;
Onare'.to, 104; Miss Rowett. 105: Ettarre,
100, Hailstone, 105; Woodlake, 107; R. Q.
Ban, 110; Mollle B., 110; Alamo, 112.
Second Race—One mile, for 3-year
olds. Miss Miles, 91; Ollean. 91; Double
Dummy, 93: Rosny. 93; Senator Penrose,
95, Squire Gillam. 96; Pop Dixon, 96; Nan
nie L's Sister, 98; Parmesan, 9S; Gioja,
101; Sanguine, 101: Little Ruck. 102; Can
dy. 10*1; Kruna, 106; Cannonade, 111.
Third' Race- One mile and twenty
yards, celling. Paskola, 100; Faslg, 105;
Springtime, 107; Pavezac, 107; Little Billy,
107; Buckmore, 107;. Terra Archer, 100;
Booze, 100; Prig. 110. Vanbrunt, 117.
Fourth Race—Seven-eighths of a mile,
handicap. Robert Latta, 108; Lonely
(Lone Prlness), 97; Ltnnette. 105; Sir
John, 90; Grayling, 91; Marquise, 97; Pate
Kitchen, 96.
Fifth Race—Three-quarters of a mile,
selling. Test, 92; Ida Wagner, 92; Jim
Maddox, 94; Fischer. 94; Renaud, 97; Mary
Nance, 97; Terranet, 97; Judge Bulock.
97; Grade C.. 97; Chula, 102; Sllge, 102;
Rover, 105; Iasle O., 105; Dr. France, 105;
Lord Willowbrook, 107.
Sixth Race—One mile and twenty
yards, selling. Henry Harris. 97; Prytan
la. 100; Helen H. II., 100; Amber Glints,
101; Little Tom, 102; Sky Blue, 102; John
Dunn, 106; Pirate, 107; Samson, 107; Te
nochtitlan, 107; Text, 100.
THE SCOTCHMAN WON.
London, Jan. 23.—The military cham
pion run between Patrick Carroll, the
Irlsh-Amerlcan long distance professional
runner of Waltham, Mass., and J. Craig,
the Scotch champion, took place at Boo
ton today. The event was won by Craig
with the greatest ease.
GOES TO JOIN THE SQUADRON.
New York, Jan. 23.—The United States
crjilser Columbia sailed this afternoon
for Hampton Roads to Join the squadron
thpro.
CLEARING THE CALENDAR
Was the Order in the Senate
Yesterday.
WAS DONE IN SHORT ORDER
f
One Hundred/ £; Four Disposed of in Ninety
's five Middles,
ALLEN, c'/PULIST, OF NEBRASKA,
J -
Offers ? >; (solution Relative to the Union
Par Compromise—Niearagua Canal
/ -Correspondence Called (or
by Morgan.
Washington, Jan. 23.—The senate de
voted Itself today to the business of
clearing the calendar of pension bills
and of other bills to which no objection
was offered. Of the former, all were
passed without a single exception. There
were 104 of them, and it required only
ninety-five minutes to dispose of them.
Of the latter class of bills, there were
some thirty passed, Including the follow
ing: Appropriating $15,000 for the heirs
of three Italians killed by mob violence
In Colorado In March, 1895; to re-classify
postal railway clerks; appropriating $50,
000 for a statute of Abmham Lincoln at
Gettysburg, Pa.; to pay the heirs of John
Roach $350,000 for the occupation of his
shops and yards by gunboats; appropriat
ing $100,000 additional for the public
building at Norfolk, Va.; authorizing the
erection of a public building at Tampa,
Fla.; appropriating $70,000 for a light
house at the pitch of Cape Fear river,
near Wilmington, N. C.; appropriating
$5,000 to the Cumberland Female college,
McMinnville, Tenn., for use of buildings
during the civil war; appropriating $8,000
for Messrs. Rhea and Anderson for cot
ton used by the government; authorizing
tho construction of a railroad bridge
across the Rio Grande river, at El Paso,
Tex.
Senate bill giving to the court of claims
jurisdiction of th claim of Warren Hall
for cotton seized during the war.
The Union Pacific railroad compromise
arrangement was the subject of a resolu
tion offered by Mr. Allen (pop. Neb), and
agreed to without objection, calling on
the attorney-gen oral for a statement of
the terms of the settlement ar.d of the
personnel of the reorganization commit
tee.
The President was requested through
another resolution, offered by Mr. Mor
gan, to furnish the senate with copies of
all correspondence and of all communica
tions relating to the Nicaragua canal
with the government of Nicaragua since
1887.
These two resolutions were the only
matters that came befor, the. .senate
today outside of the pension and other
bills already mentioned.
At 4:30 the senate adjourned until Mon
day. _^
ANOTHER BRIDGE HORROR.
Train Falls Fifty Feet--Three Men Kill
ed Outright—Many Injured.
Butler, Pa., Jan. 23.—This afternoon a
passenger train on the Pittsburg and
Western railway went off a bridge fifty
feet high over Paint creek. The entire
train, with everybody on beard, went
down. Only one person on the train, it
is said, escaped injury. The train con
sisted of engine, baggage car and two
passenger coaches. About thirty pas
sengers were on board. Just as the train
left the rails Baggagemaster Rainey, of
Foxburg, jumped, saving his life, but
suffered very serious injury. The en
gineer, fireman and mall agent were kill
ed outright. Relief trains were hurried
from St. Petersburg, and Foxburg, with
corps of physicians. The names of the
dead are:
DANIEL MORARITY, engineer.
IRA BEATTY, fireman.
WILLIAM COPELEY, mail agent.
Brakeman Wise was badly bruised, re
ceiving serious Internal injuries that may
cause his death. Details are meagre
and conflicting.
THE AERONAUT LOST.
Key West, Fla., Jan. 23.—The Fore
paugh show has been exhibiting in this
city for the past week, a balloon ascen
sion being the main feature. After sev
eial failures to ascend, the aeronaut suc
ceeded this afternoon at about 5 o'clock.
The breeze was stiff from the northeast
and a young Cuban named Perez ascend
ed. After going up about 1,000 feet he
became rattled and the ropes became
tangled. The balloon went out about
a mile from shore and fell Into the watfr.
Boats from a revenue cutter went to ren
der assistance and the balloon wns re
covered, but Perez Is given up for lost,
A SEVERE PENAUTY.
Paris, Jan. 23.—The correctional
tribunal sitting In Camera has sentenced
ex-Capt. Guillot to five years' imprison
ment and ten years deprivation of his
civil rights for espionage and selling to a
foreign county documents pertaining to
the national defense. In addition trt the
above punishment the tribunal decreed
that after serving his term of Imprison
ment Guillot should be exiled from the
country for ten years.
A TERRIBLE* HOLOCAUST.
San Francisco, Cal., Jan. 23.—Advices
from the Orient, per steamer Gaolic to
day, tell of a terrible panic In a temple at
Kwong Tow, China, In which three hun
dred men. women and children perished.
During a theatrical performance a lamp
was broken, which set the temple on fire.
The main entrance was closed and two
smaller exits were also choked. Of the
forty actors In the performance, four es
caped.
VOLUNTEERS FOR CUBA.
Parkersburg, W. V., Jan. 23.—'The first
squad of the Cuban battalion enlisted
here left tonight via Cincinnati and
Jacksonville, under, the charge of Capt.
C. H. Crawford, of" Rockland, O. These
are some of the men enlisted by Capt.
James Ween, of this cl-ty. Capt. Woon
admits that he has 200 enlisted men.
They will, the captain says, be sent out In
squads of five and six. They supply their
own arms and pay their own way.
PASSENGER TRAIN WRECKED.
Knoxville, Ten., Jan. 23.—The passen
ger train from Cincinnati southbound OB' ■
the Queen and Crescent road was wreck
ed at the mouth of the tunnel this morn
ing at Nemo. The engine and mall car
were wrecked. Fireman Charles Clarke,
of Somerset, was killed and Engineer
John Fowler, badly hurt-. No passenger#
were injured. ,. \BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1897. NUMBER 7
ANTI-POOL JILL REFERRED
Goes to the Committee On Re
vision of Laws
AFTER A HARD STRUGGLE
Joint Recess Committee to Investigate the State
University Reports.
IT IS VERY THOROUGH AND SWEEPING
And Makes Recommendations Which Will
Require Rough Handling—Election
Law Comes Up Thursday—
Notes of Interest.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 25.---(Special
Staff Correspondence.)--The Joint recess
committee raised for the purpose of in
vestigating the state university, made an
exhaustive report to the general assem
bly this morning through their chairman,
Col. B. L. Hibbard. The report proves
the investigation to have been thorough
and the committee cognizant of the seri
ous duty Imposed upon them. Their com
plaints are outspoken, and their recom
mendations numerous. That is the way
Col. Hibbard believes in making investi
gations and the other members of his
committee were in accord.
Among other things the oommittee
oompluins that $190,000 of university
funds have been expended by a member
of the board of trustees who was not un
der bond and who holds not a single
voucher for such expenditures. They
complain that the law provides that the
land commissioner of the Institution shall
not be a member of the board of trus
tees, anid that Col. Willis G. Clarke, pres
ident of the board, is the land commis
sioner. The law also provides that such
commissioner shall have his office at the
university and Col. Clarke’s office, if
there is a commissioner’s office, is in the
city of Mobile. The reports that Infideli
ty and skepticism Is prevalent among the
faculty was declared to be unfounded
and nearly all the members are consis
tent members of orthodox denominational
churches. They recommend that In most
of the departments one chair will answer
the present purpose or two, auu meieuy
save the state *57,000 annually. Aboli
tion of the military feature is recom
mended, and especially does the commit
tee recommend restoration of the univer
sity funds misappropriated by the state.
The great length of the report required
that it be printed and distributed among
the members, and a motion to that end
prevailed.
ANTI-POOL BILL.
The anti-pool bill, which passed the sen
ate on Saturday, came to the house today
on first reading, and by request of Mr.
Lipscomb the speaker referred the bill to
the revision of laws committee. Mr.
Wiley then moved that the bill be com
mitted to the judiciary.
Mr. Lipscomb, of Jefferson, moved that
Mr. Wiley’s motion be laid on the table
and the clash came. There was a heavy
lobby on hand, representing both the pas
sage and opposition to the measure. Cam
eron, of Sumter, explained his vote by
saying he had intended to vote to com
mit the bill to the judiciary, but since
seeing in the lobby faces of some of the
prominent pool room proprietors of the
state, he would have his vote recorded
in favor of tabling the motion. When,
the issue came to a vote Lipscomb’s mo
tion prevailed by a majority of one and
the bill 'will probably come up for pas
sage by Wednesday.
This legislature is unequivocally ap
posed to the prevalent spirit of specula
tion and the bill will become a law unless
some unforseen circumstance arises.
ELECTION LAW BILL.
The bill by Mr. Davis, of Marlon coun
ty, providing that the Sayre election
law be repealed and the code of 1886 be
re-enacted came up today and on motion
of Hon. Daniel Greene was made a spe
cial order for next Thursday at 11
o’clock.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The following bills were Introduced:
H. 872, by Mr. Graves—To prevent the
exploding or discharging of guns or com
mon firecrackers In any public place.
Revision of laws.
H. 873, Also—To require merchants to
provide seats for female clerks. Revision
of laws,
H. 874, by Mr. Lloyd—To amend section
1 of an act entitled an act to regulate the
floating of logs, timber and lumber upon
the rivers, creeks or other streams of
this state, and provide a penalty for ob
structing such streams, approved Feb
ruary 28, 1887. Public roads and high
ways.
H. 875, by Mr. Sham'blinr—To provide for
the payment of claims against the fine
and forfeiture fund of ChtTokee county.
Claims and fees.
H. 876, Also—To regulate the amount
of fees to be received by witnesses at
tending the circuit court in criminal
case, or before the grand Jury, so far as
the same relates to the county of Chero
Kee, ana regulate tne payment oi sucn
fees. Claims and fees.
H. 877, by Mr. Hearn—For the relief of
W. H. Edwards and Tony Horn, of
Choctaw counity. Judiciary.
H. 878, Also—To establish a branch
agricultural experiment station and agri
cultural school In Choctaw county for
negroes. Agriculture.
H. 879, by Mr. Filand—To require the
dommlstsoners’ court of Crenshaw coun
ty to draw their warrant on the treas
urer of said county In favor of John
M. Walker, the registrar of said county,
as herewith specified. Ways and means.
H. 880, By Mr. Brown, of Colbert—To in
corporate the Muscle Shoals Power com
pany. Corporations.
H. 881, By Mr. Brown, of Colbert—To
provide for the more effectual Joinder ot
causes of action founded upon contracts.
Judiciary.
H. 882, By Mr. Brown, ot Colbert—To
establish a separate school district to be
known as the Mount Pleasant school dis
trict In Colbert county, Alabama. Edu
cation.
H. S83, By Mr. Brown, of Colbert—To
regulate the collection of the pull tax
In the Tuseumbia school district of Col
bert county. Ways and Means.
H. 884, By Mr. Burns—For the relief of
Reuben W. Little. Local legislation.
H. 885. By Mr. Franklin—To reduce and
fix the commissions of the tax assessor
of DeKalb county, so far as relates to the
chu-nty tax. Ways and Means.
H. 886, By Mr. Franklin—To reduce and
fix the commissions of the tax collector
of DeKalb county. Ways and Means.
H. 887, By Mr. Beeson—To authorize
the levy and collection of a tax upon
property within the city of Gadsden; Ala.,
or that may be lawfully taxable therein
for the maintenance of Che public schools
of said city. Education.
H. 888, By Mr. (fast—1To provide for the
payment of witnesses summonded before
the grand Jury of Franklin county, Ala.,
and to flx their compensation. Judiciary.
H. 889, also—To better define premiums,
fines and stock to represent premiums
for loans of building and loan associa
tions, chartered under the laws of this
state and doing business herein, and
of foreign associations doing business In
this state; prescribing that borrowers,
under certain conditions shall not be con
sidered share holders or stock holders;
that payments made by them shall be
credited on the loan, prohibiting such
building and loan association from charg
ing or collecting a greater rate of Inter
est than 8 per cent, per annum, and to
provide for the redemption of real es
tate by borrowers, whose property has
been sold by such association. Revision
of laws.
H. 890, by Mr. Espy—To establish Ash
ford school district. Education.
H. 891, by Mr. Altman—To Incorporate
the Mercy Home, of Birmingham, Ala.,
and to prescribe Its corporate rights and
privileges. Corporations.
H. 892, by Mr. Barnes—To prescribe
the duties and flx the liability of com
mon carriers receiving freight for fur
ther transportation and delivering with
in this state. Judiciary.
H. 893, by Mr. Rogers—To amend sec
tion 3,767 of the code of Alabama. Ju
diciary.
H. 894, by Mr. Wood, of Macon—For
the relief of W. H. Rooney, clerk of the
circuit court of Macon county. Revision
of laws.
H. 896, also—To regulate the trial of
misdemeanors growing out of the Illegal
sale of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors
In the county of Macon or for the viola
tion of any of the provisions of an act
regulating the sale of spirituous, vinous
or malt liquors In said county. Revision
of laws.
H. 896, By Mr. Hampton—To prohibit
the sale or giving away of Intoxicating
liquors within three miles of Robert Don
nell academy In Guriy, Madison county,
Alabama. Temperance.
H. 897, By Mr. Robinson—For the relief
of the receiver of the Seaboard Railway
company. Judiciary.
H. 898, By Mr. Hibbard—To give pri
ority to the oldest claims against the
fine and forfeiture fund In the county of
Monroe. Revision of laws.
H. 899, By Mr. Gaston—To prevent
stock from running at large In sections
28 and 33, township 20, range 10, in Ran
dolph county. Agriculture.
H. 900, By Mr. Yarborough—To make
the third week of the circuit court of S'!.
Clair county, a non-jury week, to arrange
the business of the court for such week,
and to limit the sittings of the grand
jury of said county. Judiciary.
H. 901, By Mr. Browne, of Talladega—
To require conditional sales of personal
propeiby to be In writing. Judiciary.
H. 902, By Mr. Greene—To confer addi
tional powers upon the Birmingham
Trust and Savings company, a body cor
porate, Incorporated under the general
laws of the state of Alabama. Corpora
H. 903, Also—To Incorporate the Guar
antee Trust and Surety company. Cor
porations.
H. 904, B1 Mr. Barron—For the protec
tion of fish in the rivers, creeks, streams
and ponds and lakes in Perry county.
Agriculture.
H. 23—To fix the compensation of the
tax assessor of Montgomery county, and
authorize the board of revenue of said
oounty to pay said tax assessor quarterly
such sums of money as said board may
deem Just and proper, to be charged
against the fees and commissions earned
by him and collected by the tax collector.
H. 313—To incorporate the Independent
Fire company No. 1, of the town of High
land Park.
BILLS PASSED.
H. 339 (with amendment)—To prohibit
the partner or partners of any clerk of
the circuit, city or county court of this
state from practicing law in the court
of which his or their co-partner is clerk.
H. 247—To provide for the more efficient
workings of the public roads In Greene
county, and for the appointment of dis
trict.
H. 345—To establish an inferior court
for the county of Mobile, to detine its
Jurisdiction and to regulate the proceed
ings therein.
Notice was given by Hon. John Burns,
of Burnsville, Dallas county, the invinci
ble private John Allen of the Alabama
legislature, that he would amend the
anti-pool bill when it comes up for pass
age by including cotton futures in its
provisions. He also gave notice that he
will make a supplementary report to that
offered by the recess convict committee.
This report will also be signed by Hon.
C. E. Waller, of Hale, chairman of the
house end of that committee.
IN THE SENATE.
Moody’s dispensary bill being a spec
ial order for today, considerable time
was consumed in discussing the meas
ure Senator Moody made a noble argu
ment In support of his measure, but the
bill was defeated. Mr. Moody says he
will renefr the fight on tomorrow.
MEMORIAL.
Senator Pettus presented a memorial
from the ladies of Geneva county pray
ing the senate of Alabama to take steps
towards establishing a reformatory at
Mt. Vernon. The paper was referred to
the penitentiary committee.
Motion was made to reconsider the
vote by which Senator Brook’s bill to
make women eligible to the office of
county superintendent of education in
certain counties, was passed on Friday.
The motion was lost.
The senate passed a bill prohibiting
physicians when testifying as witnesses
from disclosing professional information.
Representative Graves. In the house,
offered a bill requiring merchants to pro
vide seats for female clerks. It was re
ferred to the committee on revision of
laws..
THE FIELD TRIALS.
Champion Trials Begin Today—Ashford
and Odom’s Von Gull Among
the Starters—Cold.
West Point, Miss., Jan. 25.—The cham
pion clubs trials begin tomorrow to set
tle the question, of champion dogs for
1897, with 230 to start and two hours
heats. There are eight entries: H. B.
Ledbetter’s English setter, Maries Port;
W. H. Beazell’s English setter, Harold
Sklmpole; Oharlottsvtlle kennels pointer
Delhi; Delmonte kennels English setter
Minnie T„ and pointer Tickboy; For and
Blyth's English setter Tony’s Gale; Ash
ford and Odom’s pointer Von Gull, and
Norvln T. Harris’ English setter Tony
Boy. W. S. Bell and N. Wallace are the
Judges. The weather is very cold and
unpromising for this trial.
ELECTRIC POWER HOUSE BURNED
Joliet, III., Jan. 25.—The Joliet Economy
Light and Power company’s building
was completely destroyed by Are this
afternoon. The total loss is estimated at
275,000. The Are was caused by an over
heated stove In the office. A number of
faotorles which depend on this company
for motive power will have to close down.
TEN ABOVE AT WASHINGTON.
Washington. Jane-25.—The mercury here
stood at 10 degAs above at midnight
tonight. Ernest go them, a white man,
was frozen, to death on the street In the
southwestern pan of the city, 1
'FROM” EASHO WEST
And From the Great Lakes to
the Gulf
OLD BOREAS HOLDS SWAY
Coldest Snap Recorded In Twenty-Five Years
in the Windy City.
TWO SCORE THOUSAND SUFFERERS
Require Uitrent Assistance—Pitiful Stories
of Suffering and Want at Omaha—St.
Iiouls Has Her Quota—Missou
ri River is Frozen Solid.
Never before 1n the history of Birming
ham has there been such a sudden fall oil
temperature as that recorded between
sunset and midnight of Sunday.
In the afternoon the weather was but
little below temperate, and In fact, rain
fell during the evening for a short time.
By nightfall It was evident a blizzard
was on hand and yesterday morning ear
ly It was here in full force. All the fore-i
noon snow and sleet fell at Intervals and'
water In exposed places was turned to
ice. No fatalities have as yet been re
ported.
At 2 a. m., themometers registered six
teen degrees above zero in exposed places
In this city.
THE WINDY CITY,
Visited by the Most Severe Weather In
Twenty-five Years—Mayor Swift Calls
for Aid for Suffering Thousands
—Generous Response.
Chicago, Jan. 25.—The people of Chica
go. In bodies and as individual citizens,
were aroused today to take prompt and
generous action for the relief of the two
score thousand destitute inhabitants,
whose suffering ftor fuel, food and cloth
ing has reached an extreme stage as a
result of the terrible cold wave which
came upon the city Saturday,increasing in
Intensity, until today it reached the low
est point recorded in a quarter of a cen
tury. Between 5 and 7 o’clock this morn
ing the weather bureau In the Auditorium
tower, where it is warmer than on the
street, recorded 20 degree* below zero.
Only once in the history of the bureau—
December 24, 1872, 23 below—has the tem
perature fallen lower. From 9 a. m. to
2 p. m. there was a gradual rise, the
range being 18 to 22 degrees, but the re
lief was hardly felt when accompanied
by a cutting -»tnd fro-m the northwest.
The highest temperature for the day was
10 degrees below, and tonight the mer
cury la moving Slowly down again, with
no hope of material relief held out for to
morrow.
Mayor Swift issued a proclamation
this afternoon, according to his expressed
intention yesterday, appealing in urgent
language to all citizens who have the
means to spare to contribute at once
money and supplies to prevent the starv
ation and freezing of unfortunate thous
ands. He urged the subscription of $100,
000 as being none too much to afford the
help needed. The fund® of the charity
organizations have been depleted, owing
to the extra demands made upon them
even during 'the mild winter weather
which prevailed here until a few days
ago.
The Chicago Relief and Aid society
was compelled to make A special appeal
for money last week to carry on its work
because of the unusually large number
of heads and supporters of families who
are unemployed.
Before the mayor’s proclamation was
issued contributions to the special fund
came pouring into his office in currency
and checks, while various offers of pro
visions, clothing, ooaJ and wood were ra*
celved on a liberal scale. The board of
trade and other organizations started to
raise relief funds and the churches and
Salvation Armies , began, making sys
tematic and' extensive' arrangements to
help in the' charitable work along their
special lines. Soup houses and shelters
will be established and maintained as
long as necessary. A plan which the
mayor and Chief of Police Badenoch
agreed upon at a conference today was
immediately put into effect. The city
will buy with the special fund, food and
fuel, and distribute them on demand
through the agency of the police depart
ment. This relief Is to be afforded with
out the usual investigation until the regu
lar charitable organizations are able to
take up the' work. All police stations
have been thrown open to the homeless,
and tonight everyone was crowded with
refugees from the freezing air. The may
or's proclamation is the first of the kind
to be issued in twenty-five years.
The worst and most numerous eases of
suffering were reported from South Chi
cago and Kensington, where thousands
of men have been laid off at the steel
mills and other establishments.
Much damage was dope in the suburbs
to telegraph and telephone wires by the
cold. Traffic with Cicero was suspended
until late today by the collapse of cable
poles. The work of affording instant tem
porary relief during the inclement weath
er was pushed'by the police agents, using
the patrol wagons and ambulances, In
such a systematic mariner that no case
of destitution reported „i£malned unat
tended to tonight.
SUFFERING ItJ ST. LOUIS.
Hundreds Caught "by the Cold Snap Pro
, vided For by (pharity.
St. Louis, Jan. 25.—The cold wave which
gathered In British Columbia on Friday,
swept down, upon this section yesterday
and still continues here, "though slightly
abated tonight. At 7 o’clock this morn
ing the temperature here was exactly
zero. At noon three degrees above was
Indicated, and at B "p. m., four degrees
above was the reading.. This extreme
low temperature, followed sharply upon
a long season of mild weather, found
thousands of poor families unprepared.
The demand upon the associated chari
ties for food.and fuel was neyer greater.
When the ticket window of the Provident
association bpened at 6'_a. m., 300 men
and women 'Were In line waiting for as
sistance. The police department 1b doing
everything possible to relieve the dis
tress. Twenty-twQ CroSt-bltten victims
were treated at the ctty1 dispensary today
and three amputations were necessary.
Hundreds of homeless people are shelter
ed tonight at the police stations.
The river has not clos«J> here, though
It is full oMloatlng log- which endan
gers shipping. Trains !%ere generally
on time thif morning., hat this evening
all due from points we*i»and south were
late, In on* instance twv hours and ten.
minutes. All were delayed by snow
blockades.
Special dispatches show that no section
west or south of this city has escaped
the sudden fury of the blizzard.
For the first time in man’s memory ice
formed for a short time over lower White
river in Arkansas today. Snow Is report
ed in West Tennessee and Southern Illi
nois. The great fruit section of South
west Missouri and Northern Ark an see,
has especially suffered and nothing can.
save the crop. A fall of snow that would
have saved the wheat fields of Missouri,
Iowa, and Nebraska, did not come with
the cold wave and predictions of disas
ter to the cereals were frequent on
change.
PITIFUL STORIES OF WANT!
Coming In at Omaha—One Foot of Ice
on Missouri River—Frozen to Death.
Omaha, Neb., Jan. 25.—tPitiful stories
of want and destitution are coming to the
attention of the authorities, aggravated
by the intense cold which still holds its
grip on the city and state. The city au
thorities today had over 1,000 families to
provide coal for, in addition to feed and
clothing. The charitable institutions of
the city are able to assist only a small
proportion of those in actual need of pro
tection.
There is a report tonight that a woman
and baby have been frozen to death at
Oak Hill, a suburb of the city. Several
persons were seriously injured by burst
ing water backs of coolring ranges and
one child may not recover from injur
ies received.
The Missouri river is entirely frozen
over, and ice has formed a foot thick on
the lakes. Out in the state the ther
mometer ranges from 12 to 17 degrees be-'
low zero, it being the coldest at Colum
bus, 100 miles west of this city. Stock
seem to be weathering the cold 6nap
better than anticipated.
COLDEST OF THE SEASON.
Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 25.—The coldest
weather this winter has prevailed dur
ing the last twenty-four hours in this
section of the southwest. There is no
sn«>w, but a high, freezing wind has
added to the suffering. Great damage
to live stock Is reported. The cold wave
extended to the territories. An average
of four degrees below zero is reported
in Kansas with no prospect of immedi
ate relief.
IN THE METROPOLIS.
New York, Jan. 25.—Today Is the cold
est day experienced by New Yorkers this
winter. At 7 o'clock this morning the
thermometer indicated only five above
zero. It gradually rose, however, dur
ing the morning and at noon indicated
thirteen above.
MILWAUKEE TWENTY BELOW.
Milwaukee, Wis., Jan. 25.—The coH
wave was here today in full force. This
morning the-thermometer recorded twen
ty below zero. The relief organizations
of the city are overwhelmed with appli
cations for help from the suffering un
employed, and there is much distress that
cannot be alleviated. Lake traffic con
tinues under obstacles, an almost Impene
trable mass of steam arising from the
water.
51 BELOW ON THE RANGES.
Duluth. Minn., Jan. 25.—The govern
m?Lt thermometers here today registered
thir' y-two degrees below zero, but priv
ate .nstruments went much lower. There
Is no wind. It Is 61 below on the ranges
at Virginia; forty-two at Tower; forty
at Ely, and twenty-eight at Two Har
bors.
BEAT THE RECORD.
Malone, N. Y., Jan. 25.—The weather
this morning beat the record of the win
ter here for Arctic cold, thermometers in
this village registering from twenty-six
to thirty degrees below zero and the mer
cury touching thirty-two degrees below
at " o’clock a. m. A stiff gale and drift
ing snow added to the severity of the
day in this country, and practically stop
ped all outdoor business.
BIG DROP AT JACKSON, MISS.
Jackson, Miss., Jan. 25.—There was a
drop of thirty-eight degrees In tempera
ture here last night. The thermometer
yesterday was sixty degrees and today
stands at twenty-two above. Some sleet
and snow has fallen.
COLDEST IN TWENTY-TWO YEARS.
Detroit, Mfch., Jan. 25.—Detroit experi
enced the coldest weather in twenty-two
years last night and this morning, and
the coldest January weather on record.
At 8 o’clock this morning the mercury
stood at fifteen degrees below zero and
at noor. 1t had not raised much. Reports
from the state show that the Arctic
weather is general. Marquette reports
fourteen degrees below; Alpena, six; Ig
nacio, twelve; Escambia, twenty-five;
Ishpemlng, twenty-five; Davison, twelve;
Buchanan, twenty; Portland, ten; Utica,
nineteen; Port Huron, eleven; Decatur,
fifteen; Grand Rapids, four.
r 11U/.C. 1TJ UliATH.
Prairie Du Chien, Wls., Jan. 25.—A
trapper known here as Henry York, but
whose name la said to be Henry Lltze,
was found this morning eight miles north
of this city, frozen to death, opposite his
camp on the ice.
REPORTS FROM FLORIDA.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 25.—The tem
perature at 10 p. m. In Florida was as
follows: Jacksonville, 64; St. Augustine,
66; Orlando, 68; Tampa, 63; Jupiter, 64;
K6y West, 68. A slightly falling barome
ter is noted at all South Florida points,
with twin at Key West. No damage has
been done to crops and none Is expected.
QUEBEC 24 BELOW.
Quebec, Jan. 26.—The mercury here
this morning touched 24 degrees below
zero.
CINCINNATI 12 BELOW.
Cincinnati, Jan. 25.—The cold wave
struck Cincinnati In all Its fury Sunday
night and the thermometer fell steadily
until it reached 9 degrees below zero at
5 o'clock this morning. There Is much
suffering among the poor In the suburbs.
Adam Felse, aged 19, of Dunlap street,
was the first victim of the extreme cold
weather. He was brought to the hospital
with both hands frozen. At 8 o'clock the
thermometer registered 12 below.
VICTIMS OF THE STORM.
Marquette, Mich., Jan. 25.—Joe Martin
and John Ford were Instantly killed, and
Pat Donahue fatally wounded In the
woods near Huron bay this morning.
The men were returning to their lumber
camp In a blinding snow storm wheu a
tree fell on the party.
CUT OFF FROM THE WORLD.
Pierre, S. D„ Jan. 25.—This city has
been cut oft from the outside world for
the past four days. It has received no
eastern mall or papers since Friday
morning, and there Is no prospect for the
blockade being lifted before Wednesday.
Sunday was too stormy for members to
attend church, and they devoted their
time to an attempt to break the senato
rial deadlock. Their schemes failed to
work, and the vote today showed the
situation unchanged from last week.
The vote: Pickier, 52; Kyle, 80; Leucftis,
16: Plowman, 11; Goodykoonti, 6; Keller,
2; Kirk, 2; Palmer, L
THE ALLEGED CROOKEDNESS
—
In Selecting Delaware’s Senator
and Otbjfi,
-v
calls for a'Discussion
Turpie Wants Cuba R( Jfnized and Weyler’s
Butchery Pi/ i End To.
EX-SPEAKER CHARLtor. CRISP EULOGIZED
Democratic and Bepublioan Senators Fay
Tribute to the Dead Speaker—Indian
Appropriations in the House—
Washington Gossip.
Washington, Jam 2B.—The condition of
affairs in connection with the choice of
a senator from the state of Delaware was
called to the attention of the senate to
day by Mr. Burrows (rep. Mich.), who
presented a paper signed by the three
presidential electors for that state In
which it Is asserted that through Illegal
and fraudulent action a majority of
about 500 republican votes In Kent county
had been changed into a democratic ma
jority of about 200. Mr. Burrows also
presented a paper signed by the speaker
of the senate and the speaker of the
house, asserting that legislators chosen
by the people were evicted from the state
capitol and that the powers of the state
government were usurped by a corrupt
oligarchy. Both papers urge the senate
to take action in the premises. In con
nection with the same subject Mr.
Chandler (rep. N. H.), announced his in
tention to suggest to the senate whether
some method cannot be fixed "to pre
vent the wholesale larceny of senator
ships In various states.”
A resolution was offered by Mr. Petti
grew sllverlte, S. D.), and was referred to
the committee on contingent expenses,
1U1 U OCICVV ' -
Issue of land patents to the Pacific rail
roads and aa to the diversion from the
gross earnings of the subsidies paid by
the companies to the Pacific Mall Steam
ship company. And notice was given by
Mr. Grear (rep. Ia.), chairman of the
Pacific railroad committee, that after the
Nicaragua canal bill was out of the way
he would ask the senate to consider the
Pacific railroad commission bill, Mr.
White (dem. Cal ), giving notice that ob
jection would be made to the considera
tion of that bill.
A bill providing that no person shall be
tried In a United States court for acts, in
aid of the republic of Cuba, was intro
duced by Mr. Chandler, and was referred
to the Judiciary committee.
In pursuance of a previous notice Mr.
Turple (dem. Ind.), addressed the senate
in a long constitutional argument to
prove that the primary and paramount
power to recognize a new state is vested
not in the President of the United States,
but in congress under that clause of the
constitution which declares that congress
shall have power to regulate commerce—
that is, according to Mr. Turple—inter
course with foreign states. He spoke for
two hours and a half and had not con
cluded when the hour fixed for eulogies
on ex-Speaker Crisp, of Georgia, arrived.
In the course of his speech he Indulged
In vituperation of Capt.-Gen, Weyler as
“an indescribably diminutive reptile;-’
as “a man who used his sword against
women and children,-- and who met his
enemy with paper pellets and proclama
tions. Mr. Turple favored an Immediate
declaration of belligerency, which would
be followed, he said, by the issue of let
ters of marque and reprisal and by the
appearance of privateers—'militia of the
sea--—that would sweep Spanish com
merce from the ocean and would clean
the market to Spanish bonds and securi
ties. Mr. Turple will continue his speech
tomorrow.
The eulogies on ex-Speaker Crisp were
delivered by Senators Gordon, democrat,
of Georgia; Galllnger, republican, of New
Hampshire; Berry, democrat, of Arkan
sas; Mills, democrat, of Texas; Carter, re
publican, of Montana; Daniel, democrat,
of Virginia, and Bacon, democrat, of
Georgia.
IN THE HOUSE.
The nouse Began uusmeMs
passing, on motion of Mr. Sayers, demo
crat, of Texas, the senate bill to provide
for an examination and survey of a wa
ter route from the mouth of the jetties at
the city of Galveston, Tex„ through the
ship canal and up Buffalo bayou to the
cltv of Houston.
Following this the house disposed of a
lot of miscellaneous business and toward
the close of the session entered upon the
consideration of the Indian appropriation
bill. In the time allotted to general de
bate on the measure, Mr. Johnson (rep.,
Ind.) gave to the house at length his
views upon the necessity for a revision of
the currency and banking laws. After
disposing of about a quarter of the text
of the bill, which includes eighty printed
pages, the house, at 5:10 o’clock, ad
journed until tomorrow.
The conference report on the immigra
tion bill was presented by Mr. Danford,
(rep., O.) who gave notice that he would
ask the house to take It up Wednesday
and dispose of It.
The house committee on foreign af
fairs today ordered favorably reported
the resolution requesting the secretary
of state to givg the house the present
status of the treaty by which the United
States and Great Britain are restricted
from building or maintaining was ves
sels on the great lakes.
During the discussion Mr. Smith, (rep.
of Michigan), whp Introduced the reso
lution, read a letter written to Secre
tary Herbert in 1895, approving the
course of the navy department In refus
ing to consider bids oJ[V the Detroit Dry
Dock company for building war ships
The report on the resolution was unani
mous.
-o
THE SUPREME COURT.
Takes Its Usual Reces^and Will Hear
Important Cases BeforPa Full Bench.
Washington, Jan. 25.—Chief Justice
Fuller announced today that the supreme
court would take the usual February re
cess beginning next Monday and end
ing Monday, March 1.
He also announced that the several
cases assigned last week to be argued be
fore a full bench would go over until the
reassembling of court In March. These
include the cases of the Interstate com
merce commission vs. the Alabama Mid-,
land, and the Detroit, Grand Haven and
Wisconsin railroad companies.
NO ACTION TAKEN
In the Nomination of William D. Mc
Hugh—Two Others Reported.
Washington, Jan. 25.—The senate com
mittee on judiciary took no action on the
nomination of William D. McHugh,
nominated to be district Judge for the
district of Nebraska. The weekly post
ponment of the consideration of this
nomination Is looked upon as an Indica
tion of the desire of the committee to
leave this appointment hung up until the
end of the session.
The nomination of Charles B. How
rey, of Mississippi, to be assistant Jus
tice of the court of claims, and Charles
F. Armldon, to be district Judge for the
district of North Dakota, was ordered to
be favorably reported with the proviso
that action shall not be taken by the
senate until Senator George, in the one
case, and Senator Hansbro-ugh, in the
other, can be heard from.
SENT THE REQUIRED LETTERS.
■Washington, Jan. 25.—The president to
day sent to the senate in response to a
resolution, a list of American citizens
either native born or naturalized, who
have been arrested In Cuba since the be
ginning of the present insurrection, to
gether with the action taken In each case.
The arrests number seventy-four. Of
these seven have been tried, and appeals
were taken In two Instances from the
sentence imposed—those of Sanguiily
and Someillan. In the cases of the five
Competitor prisoners a new trial has
been ordered. Seven American newspa
per correspondents were also arrestedl
and banished.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Jan. 26.—A decided drop
In the temperature brought out heavy
wraps and top ooats today at the race
Connie, but a big crowd was on hand and
saw some lively sport over a fast track,
with only one favorite successful.
First Race—Six furlongs. Strathreel,
100 (T. Bums), 15 to 1, won; Alame, sec
ond; R. Q. Ban, third. Time, 1:16%.
Second -Race—One mile, 3-year-olds.
Cannonade, 111 (Walker), 15 to 1, won;
Senator Penrose, second; Nannie L's Sis
ter, third. Time, 1:44%.
Third Race—Mile and twenty yards,
selling. Farig, 106 (Scherrer), 3 to 1, won;
Terra Archer, second; Booze, third. Time,
1:45.
Fourth Race—Seven furlongs, handi
cap. Grayling, 91 (T. Burns), 4 to 5, won;
Marquise, second; Lonely, third. Time,
1:29%.
Fifth Raoe—Six furlongs, selling. Judge
Bullock, 97 (A. Barrett), 4 to 1, won;
Fischer, second; Ida Wagner, third. Time,
1:15%.
Sixth Race—Mile and twenty yards,
selling. Samson, 107 (Morse), 5 to 2, won.;
Elano, second; Amber Glintz, third.
Time, 1:45.
TODAY'S ENTRIES.
New Orleans. Jan. 25.—Tomorrow's en
tries are as follows:
First Race—Three-fourths mile, purse.
Tern, 89; Connie Lee, 89; Mairete, 91; D.
L.. 91; Gold Top, 94; Minnie Murphy, 99;
Gaston, 99; Glsmonda, 104.
Second Race—Three-fourths mile, sell
ing. Lott, 97; Illia, 97; Seelbach, 99; Bar
ney Adler, 99; Senator Penrose, 99;
Marmion, 99; Little Nigger, 102; Harry
B., 102; Prince Proverb, 104.
Third Race—One and one-eighth of a
mile, hurdle handicap. Mr. Dunlap. 137;
Folly, 125; Austin, 139; Partisan, 130; St.
Leo, 131; Granada, 140.
Fourth Race—Mile and sixteenth, han
dicap. Cannonade, 91; Roesmar, 109;
Jack Hayes, 91; Kruna, 96; Constant. 96;
Shtiron, 92; Anger, 98; Olivia L., 94; Full
Hand, 92; Partner, 96.
Fifth Race—Seven-eighths mile, selling.
Sobriquet, 94; C. C. Rumrill, 96; Grade C.,
97; Terra Net, 99; Stark, 99; Galley etVst,
102; Soundrnore, 107; Bob Clampett, 107;
Hailstone, 110.
Sixth Race-^Three-quarters of a mile,
selling. Ollean. 97: Mary Ciiance, 97:
Maud Lyles, 97; Plaudlta, 97; Gracefln,
97; Some Hopes, 97; Old Ham, 99; Harry
B.. 102; Sanguine, 102; Juanita, 103.
WITH A FLAMINGTORCH
Weyler Continues His March and Ilia
Path Is One Grand Illumination
of Burning Plantations. "
Key West, Fla., Jan. 25. -Advices from
Havana, say that the conflict between the
sugar planters and Weyler continues
with more bitterness than ever. Both
are determined to carry out their pur
poses, and the unusual spectacle Is pre
sented of two contending parties fight
ing with one another without openly de
claring their hostilities. Weyler, on one
side, is trying to prevent them from
grinding, but without^stating it officially,
and the planters on the other, as in de
fiance to orders, are boldly initiating
their crop. Who will be the victor is a
matter to be seen. For the present It is
only known that about a dozen sugar
estates ore already grinding in the sev
eral provinces of the Island, and many
others are making preparations to that
effect. On the other hand it is known
on good authority that Weyler has given
orders to his troops to burn all the cane
fields on their march, especially of those
estates whose owners have declared their
intention to grind in spite of his orders,
for instance the Constucla, belonging to
the Marquis of Apotoguia, who lias just
gone over to Spain to complain against
Weyler. The consequence is that the
principal sugar belt of the island, say the
Clenfuegos district, is said to be ablaze.
Matanzas and Havana districts are also
on fire. Over 1,500,000 “arrebas” ’or
quarters of cane have been burnt In the
"Pilar" estate near Artemlsa two days
ago. The damage done can be easily cal
culated. In the Oonstancia case the di
rect sufferers will be Americans who
control a great interest In that proper
ty represented by 1750,000 loaned on the
same by an American syndicate.
Of the war, nothing much can be said.
With the exception of the Oauto affair,
of which there are incomplete details,
no important happenings have occurred.
Weyler continues on his march without
deviating from the highways and rail
road lines. Despite the strong column
marching with'him, he apparently fears
to enter the uneexplored regions. As he
burns and destroys everything In bis pas
sage, he Illuminates h1s way as If he
carried a torch In his hand, and the rebels
can easily avoid any encounter with his
solid column. Thus it is explained why
he has no encounters with them.
To give an Idea of the notorious Fon
deviela’e character, here is an instance:
"Arranguren did well in setting them
free, otherwise there would not remain
a single Cuban male alive today In Gu
anabaeoa." The arest and killing of the
unfortunate citizens of that unhappy
town continues as ever, and as he has
prohibited their removal to this city or
other places, their situation can be easily
considered. Persons who have visted the
town say nothing more shocking can
be seen. All the houses are closed: ladies
fear to look out of the windows; as the
soldiers will surely Insult them; few cit
izens walk around the streets, only armed
soldiers, soiled and repulsive, are to be
seen.”
Rumors of the lauding of expeditions
have been afloat in Havana for the last
few days. One Is said to have landed In
Plnardel Rio and the oWier around Man
zanillo. The exact location has not been
ascertained.
The forces under Weeyler’s command
number 14,000 infantry, a cavalry regi
ment And twenty-two pieces of artillery.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1897. NUMBER 8
STATE TAX_COMMISSION
Seems Now Inevitable Despite a
Bitter Opposition.
FULL TEXT OF THE BILL
Which Seems Destined to Become a Law
Against the Wishes of Many.
CALLS FOR A GREAT MANY NEW OFFICES
And This Perhaps Occasioned the Bitter
Contention—Bills Introduced in Both
Houses—The Dispensary Bill
Passes the Senate.
Montgomery, Ala,, Jan. 26.—(Special
Correspondence.)—One of the most Im
portant bills of the entire session engag
ed the attention of the lower house this
morning for two 'hours. The tax bill, in
troduced by Mr. Mitchell, of Lauderdale,
having been made a special order for to
day at 11 o’clock, provoked a lengthy
discussion and finally passed by a vote
of 50 to 34.
Passage of the measure was ably ad
vocated by ^Meador, of Marengo, and
Mitchell, of Lauderdale. The opposition
was led by Lipscomb and Greene, of
Jefferson, and McCollom, of Fayette.
It was understood by the members that
this bill has the endorsement of the chief
executive of the state; in fact this was
staled by Mr. Aleador, in course of the
debate.
Following is a copy of the bill In Its en
tirety. There is now every reason to
believe that it will become a law, al
though notice was given In the house to
day that motion to reconsider will be
made tomorrow. Col. Altman, of Jeffer
son, is possibly the bill’s most formida
ble opposer:
THE TAX BIEL.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the general
assembly of Alabama: There shall be ap
pointed by the governor a state tax com
missioner and by said state tax commis
sioner there shall be appointed subject
to the approval of the gove;Tior, one coun
ty tax commissioner for each of the coun
ties of this state. Said appointments
shall be made as soon as practicable af
ter the passage of this act, and the term
of office of the first appointees shall ex
pire on the 1st Monday in January, 1901,
or as soon thereafter as their successors
are appointed and qualified. Subsequent
appointments shall be made in the month
of January, 1901, and every four years
thereafter, and the term of office of said
tax commissioners shall be for four years
and until their successors are appoint
ed and qualified.
Sec. 2. Be It further enacted. That any
of said tax commissioners may be re
moved at any time, by the governor, at
his discretion, for inefficiency, malfeas
ance or misfeasance in office. Vacancies
in the office of state commissioner shall
be filled by appointment by the governor,
and in the office of the county commis
sioners by appointment by the state com
mlsisoner, with the approval of the gov
ernor.
Sec. 3. Be it further enacted, That no
salaries or fees shall be paid to said of
ficers out of the treasury of the state or
counties, or out of any public fund what
ever, but their compensation shall be al
lowed to them out of escaped, delinquent
and back taxes, licenses and penalties as
hereinafter provided.
dec. 4. Be it further enacted. That it
shall be the duty of the state commis
sioner to prepare and submit to the audi
tor, to be by him submitted to each of
the general assembly at the commence
ment of said session, assessment and
revenue bills or such amendments to ex
isting tax laws, as may be necessary or
expedient; provided, said commissioner
shall receive no compensation for this
service.
Sec. 5. Be it further enacted. That It
shall be the duty of the state tax com
missioner to work under the supervision
of the auditor, as other tax officers are
required to do by section 618 of the code;
the clerks and deputies of said state tax
commissioner and county commissioners
shall work under the direct supervision
and direction of said tax commissioner.
s n. 11 C_J.1_ _rnknii I 4
Sec. fi. Be it turtner enacted, i nun it
shall be the duty of tax commissioners
appointed by virtue of this act to aid the
revenue officers of the state in the collec
tion of escaped, delinquent, back taxes
and licenses, in discovering and report
ing and prosecuting by civil and criminal
penalties and costs, all evasions or vio
lations of the revenue laws of this state,
and .in the perfecting of all tax titles
made under the laws of this state; the
intent and purpose of this act being that
said officers are to he the direct and
special agents and attorneys of the state
and counties, in the enforcement of
revenue laws.
Sec. 7. Be It further enacted. That said
commissioners shall scrutinize the license
records and stubs kept in the office of the
judge of probate, and if it shall be re
ported to any commisisoner or come to
his knowledge, that any person, persons,
firms or corporations have failed or re
fused to take out licenses as required by
law, said commissioner is required to re
port the same to the judge of probate,
■who shall forthwith cite such delinquent
to appear before him and take out such
license. If such delinquent shall still fail
and refuse to take out license, said com
missioner is hereby required forthwith
to institute or cause to be Instituted
criminal proceedings against such delin
quent before any court having jurisdic
tion of the offense. In case of emergency
said commissioner must commence the
criminal prosecution In the first place.
For performing the duties required by
this section the commissioner is entitled
for each case so brought before the pro
bate judge to be paid by the delinquent
In addition lo the license, ten per cent,
on the amount of the license so collected
from each delir.qpent. And if a criminal
prosecution shall be commenced, either
by affidavit or Indictment, said commis
sioner shall be paid'ten dollars to be tax
eel as costs In each case and ten per cent
um of the penalty prescribed in said
case; said costs and penalty to be paid
fn money.
Sec. 8. Be It further enacted. That the
Judge of probate, the sheriff and his depu
ties, justices of the pjgtce and tax col
lectors and tax assessors are hereby re
quired to co-operate with said tax com
missloners. to allow them full and free
access at all timed to all records, books,
affidavits, assessment lists and papers in
their said offices, to the end that all per
sons and property and occupations re
quired by law to be licensed or taxed may
be fairly, fully and equitably assessed,
and that no person, firm or corporation
may escape Just burdens of taxation.
Any officer failing to perform his duty
under this section shall forthwith be re
ported by said commllsioner to any su
preme court, circuit cMirt judge or chan
cell who shall immediately Issue a rule
to „aid officer to show cause w'hy he
should not be committed to Jail as rof
contempt. On the day fixed in said rule,
if it has been served, the Judge or chan
cellor must examine said officer, clerk or
witness; if he appears, and unless some
lawful reason is shown for such default
or refusal, must commit such offending
person to jail until he renders the assist
ance, gives the information, or testifies
as required by law.
Sec. 9. Be it further enacted, That the
county tax commissioner is hereby re
quired to inspect the assessment li^ts and
books of the tax assessor and to call 'the
attention of said assessors to any errors
of description, of form or substance
which might affect the title to property
sold for taxes, and the tax assessor shall
correct all misdescriptions and errors in
said lists and books pointed out to him
by U* tax commissioner, and for each
parcel of land which has been insufficient
ly described or misdescribed and of
which the commissioner shall furnish
the assessor with a proper description,
the commissioner shall be paid a fee of
one dollar, to be assessed and collected as
a penalty against the tax payer for im
properly describing his land. If the tax
commissioners shall fail to satisfy the
court or board that the tax payer insuffi
ciently described or misdescribed any
taxable property, then the said tax com
missioner fchall be taxed with all cost In
said proceedings, including pay for the
tax payer, same per diem and mileage as
is now allowed by the general law for
witnesses attending circuit court to be
deducted from any money due said tax
commissioner, and if it appears to said
court or board that such insufficient or
misdescription was the fault of the tax
assessor, than said tax assessor shall be
taxed with such cost, to be deduced from
any money of said tax assessor.
Sec. 10 Be it further enacted. That af
ter the first Monday In May it shall be
the duty and right of the tax commis
sioner to make any assessments for the
current year, which the tax asse-sor may
have failed to assess prior >to said date,
and It Is hereby made the duty of the
tax assessor to enter said supplemental
assessments so made by the tax commis
sioner, with the penalties, in his regular
book of arwessments, under the heading,
to be made by him, of "Assessments by
Tax Commissioner,” which said assess
ments so made in the original book shall
be returned by the tax assessor with
his other assessments, and follow and
conform with the due course of law pre
scribed for them. Said tax commissioner
shall be paid a fee of 10 per centum on all
taxes which may be collected upon the
assessments made by him. to be-added to
such assessments as a penalty.
Sec. 11. Be it further enacted. That
when said county tax commissioner shall
be engaged in examining the assessment
lists and books as provided for In section
9 of this act, If he shall find or it shall
otherwise come to hts knowledge that
any person or property has been assessed
at what he considers an under-valuation,
it shall be his duty to make an additional
assessment against such person or prop
erty. and to return the same to the court
of county commissioners or other court
or board having charge of this subject,
at the next succeeding term thereof,
which court or board shall hear said tax
commissioners upon such under-valua
tion, and If they are reasonably satisfied
that such under-valuation exists, then
they shall give notice, try and dispose of
such assessments as In other cases of un
der-valuation and as provided for In sec
tion 512 of the code of 1886; provided that
no tax payer shall be required to have the
value of his assessed property passed up
on by the court or board more than one
time during one year. Tax commission
ers shall receive 10 per centum of the tax
arising from such additional assessments.
Sec. 12. Be It further enacted, That it Is
the especial duty of the tax commislson = r
to cause escaped taxes to be assesed
and collected ,and he shall have all the
powers for the purpose of making assess
ments now given, to the assessors and col
lectors. Whenever he Ehali discover or It
shall come to his nowledge that any per
son or property, or firm or corporation
has not been assessed with the tax or
taxes lawfully chargeable to such per
son, property, firm or corporation for the
current year or for any preceding year
■not more than five years before that time,
he shall forthwith notify the assessor, if
such assessor haa not delivered his as
sessment books and lists finally to the
judge of probate; and the tax assessor Is
hereby required to assess such person,
property, firm or corporation as directed
by the tax commissioner and to enter
the same in hia book under the head of
“commissioner’s assessment of especial
taxes." But If such escaped taxes shall
come to the knowledge of the tax com
missioner after said assessment books
and lists have been so delivered, Mien said
tax commissioner shall notify the tax
collector of such escaped taxes, who shall
proceed forthwith to assess and collect
the same as provided In section 21, p.
16 of the acts 1886-7, and report the same
to the probate judge who shall enter said
assessment In the back of the book of as
sessments under the head of "commis
sioner's assessment of escaped taxes,”
and shall certify the same to the state
auditor, as required by said section of
said act, and said assessor or collector
when making said assessment shall add
to the taxes ten per centum ns a penalty
to be paid to the tax commissioner.
Sec. 13. Be it further enacted, That in
the assessment of supplemental, back or
escaped taxes as provided herein, tax
commissioners shall have the same au
thority to administer oaths and propound
questions as the tax assessor has, and
any person, firm or corporation, or any
officer or agent thereof, falling or refus
ing to answer such questions or to give
in his property, shall be liable to the
same penalties as provided where parties
fail or refuse to give in their property
to the tax assessor or answer the ques
tions required to be propounded by the
tax assessor.
Sec 14. Be it further enacted, That
county tax commissioners shall be en
titled to receive the fees provided by this
act from the tax collector and the Judge
of probate, givtng duplicate receipts
therefor, one of-which shall be forwarded
to the auditor. And the state commis
sioner, as a compensation for the duties
provided herein and for organizing and
continuing in practical working order the
efficient enforcement of the revenue laws
as provided herein, shall * -ceive from the
county commissioners to be agreed on,
with reference to the amounts received
by thenn between said rtate commie sinner
and said county commissioners; provided
That said state commisdoner for himself,
Including the traveling expenses for him
self and his deputies and for his clerks
and office expenses o>f all kinds, shall re
ceive not exceeding ten per cent, of the
fees of the county commissioners In coun
ties which, according to the census of
the United States then last preceding, do
pot exceed 10 Q00 population; and in coun
ties of over 10,000 population and not ex
ceeding 20,000 population, he shall receive
not exceeding 15 per cent, of said fees;
in counties of over 20,000 and not exceed
ing 30.000, 20 per cent.; over 30,000 and not
exceeding 40,000, 25 per cent.; over 40,000
and not exceeding 50,000. 30 per cent.; over
60,000 and not exceeding 60,000, 36 per
cent.; over 60,000 and not exceeding 70,000,
40 per cent.; over 70,000 and not exceeding
80,000. 45 per cent.: and over 80,000, 50
pel cent, of said fees; and said county
tax commissioner shall give bond when
required by the state commissioner, to be
approved by the ’Judge of probate and
filed with the auditor, for the perform
ance of their duties and the prompt pay
tconttnued on Second
NO FLOGGING FOR SAILORS
But on the Contrary, Better Pro
tection, Said Frye
IN ANSWER TO A' CHARGE
Made by Labor Organizations in Reference to
Bill Recently Introduced.
PRESIDENT’S VETO AGAIN IGNORED
E ' ’
Turpie Concludes His Flea for Cuba—Dan
iel Dubs the Nicaragua Canal Bill
as Being " In Fraud of
the Contract.’*
Washington, Jan. 26.—In the senate to
day a very positive denial was given by
Mr. Frye to the charge of labor associa
tions that the effect of one of the bills
recently reported from the committee on
commerce and passed by the senate,
would be the restoration of flogging in the
merchant marine. On the contrary, he
asserted that its effect would be to give
greater security to the sailor against the
brutality of any master or officer at s®.
Senator Turpie, (dem. of Indiana), re
sumed and brought to a conclusion the
speech began by him yesterday in favor
of the recognition of Cuban independence.
He did not, as was expected, attempt
to pillory Secretary Olney for denying
the right of congress to recognize a mew
government or a new nation but con
fined himself to the argument that Spain
had failed, and would fail to suppress the
insurrection, and that it was the right
and duty of congress to recognize the
independence of the republic of Cuba.
Between the close or Mr. Turpies
speech and the close of the morning hour
there was a period of some forty minutes,
which was utilized by Mr. Chandler in
getting consideration for his bill for a
commission to an International monetary
conference. Mr. White made some Jocu
lar remarks on the subject of Senator
Wolcott’s mission as an envoy to Eu
rope, and intimated that if it were merely
an effort of the republican party to make
the people believe that it was anxious to
carry out the pledge made In the St.
Louis platform1 In favor of international
bimetallism, he said that there would
be no objection to the passage at the bill,
and that the fullest chance would be.
given to redeem republican promises, but
that the attempt was doomed to certain
failure. The commission, he said, If ap
pointed, would never come home, because
It would never go abroad, and the repub
lican party feeling that Its pledges as to 1
International bimetallism had been car
ried out, would proceed to relieve the
people by the addition of more taxes.
Mr. Cannon, (rep. of Utah), said that he
would vote for the bill, although he re
garded it as entirely too nebulous and
lamentably weak in leaving to the presl
dent’s discretion a question concerning
which he had (before and during the
campaign) preserved the silence of the
seven sleepers combined.
Notice was given by Mr. Stewart (pop.,
Nev.) of an amendment to the bill, mak
ing it the duty of the secretary of the
treasury, one month after the failure and
adjournment of the commission, to coin
all gold and silver brought to the mint
for the benefit of the depositors—the sil
ver into silver standard dollars and the
gold into coin.
The bill went over, with notice from
Mr. Chandler that he would endeavor to
have speedy action on It.
The remainder of the day’s session wasi
occupied by Mr. Daniel (dem., Va.) in
a speech against the Nicaraguan canal
bill, as being "In fraud of the contract.”
At the close of Mr. Daniel’s speech the
senate went into executive session and
at 5:45 p. m. adjourned until tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Another presidential veto was repu
diated by the house today. A bill to re
store Jonathan Scott, a veteran of the
Fifth Iowa cavalry, to the pension roll,
from which he was dropped by the bu
reau in 1894, at the rate of $72 a month1
for total blindness, failed to receive Mr.
Cleveland’s approval. Upon recommen
dation of the committee on invalid pen
sions the house, by a vote of 137 to 52
passed the bill over the veto.
A bill was passed to pay J4bz to jonn,
McRae, a deputy United States marshal
for expenses incurred by him In 1859, in
seizing and caring for thirty-six mem
bers of the cargo- of Africans landed by
the ship Wanderer, near Savannah, in an
effort to evade the anti-slave trade law,
the thirty-six being afterward returned
to Africa.
Mr. Hitt (rep., 111.) reported the diplo
matic and consular appropriation bill,
which was placed on the calendar. The
rest of the day was spent In committee
of the whole in the consideration of the
Indian appropriation bill. There re
mained thirty of the eighty-one pages of
the bill undisposed of when the commit
tee rose, and the house, at 5:10 o'clock
adjourned.
—
NEW YORK'S UPPER HOUSE
Passes Strong Resolutions In Advocacy
of Freedom For Cuba.
Albany, N. Y., Jan. 26.—-The senate to
day adopted the following Cuban resolu
tions:
Whereas, the American people, true to
their traditions, believing firmly in the
principles of representative governments,
have watched with keen interest the
brave struggle by the Cubans for their
freedom and independence, and that,
Whereas, the principles for which they
are fighting are the principles which come
nearest to the hearts of the American
people, and,
Whereas, the commercial interests of
the United States, and especially of the
state of New York have suffered severely
on account of the unsettled condition of
affairs in the Island of Cuba,
Resolved, by the aasetnbly of the state
of New York, the senate concurring, That
the senators and representatives in con
gress from this state be urged to give
their support to any- pleasures that wfll
bring about an amicable' and Just settle
ment of the difficulties existing between
Spain and Cuba.
Resolved, That the sena te and assembly
representing the people of the state of
New York do hereby express warm sym
pathy with the-Cubans'In their efforts
to secure bforae rifle, and trust that con
gress naay speedily accord belligerent
rights and recognize the independence
of Cuba,
A HOTEL DESTROYED.
Logansport, Ind., Jan. 26.—The Mur
dock hotel and Elliotts, -wholesale gro
cery building burned here tonight, en
tailing a loss of between $75,000 and $100,
000. Many surroumjjfig buildings were
badly damaged by AM, water and smoke.
' * \ ,*j
A DAY OF CONFLAGRATIONS
Philadelphia Has a Most Desper
ate Struggle.
THE ENTIRE DEPARTMENT
Called Upon to Battle the Worst Blaze Record
ed in that City In a Generation.
FIREMEN HAVF A TWO-FOLD FIGHT
Water Froza as it Fell and the Footing Was
Unsafe—Wanamaker’a Mammoth Struc
ture Was Several Times Threatened—
Large Fires in Other Seotions.
Philadelphia, Jan. 26.—The fire which
started at 6:46 o’clock this morning from
an overheated oven in the basement of
the six-story iron building, 1309 to 1317
Market street, burned over the block
bounded by Thirteenth street and Juni
per street and Market and Filbert streets,
destroyed or gutted sixty buildings and
consumed property valued at a million
and a half dollars. Many small store
keepers lost their all and several thous
and working people Were thrown out of
employment. The damaged buildings
Were generally fully Insured. The fire
was the worst that has been experienced
in Philadelphia in a generation. The
scene of the destruction was located In
the very heart of the city. Many of the
properties destroyed, especially on Thir
teenth, Juniper and Sliver streets, the
latter a small thoroughfare running be
tween Market and Filbert streets, were
small, old-fashioned dwelling houses, and
aside from the loss to their tenants, their
destruction will probably be to the ulti
mate good, if newer and more modern
buildings are erected on their sites.
Surrounding this section, though, are
many handsome wholesale stores, and on
the south side of Market street, directly
opposite where the fire raged the fiercest
is located the store of ex-Postmaster
General John Wanamaker.
Though on fire time and again, and
while the frontage on Market street was
badly damaged, the store was saved from
destruction. To the west of the fire, but
separated from it by the great width of
the street and pavement at this point, is
the great pile of white marble buildings
used as the city hall. Beyond the crack
ing of seme of the plate glass windows
by the Intense heat, the hall escaped un
scathed.
While there were a number of minor
casualties among the firemen no one was
very seriously hurt. But one death Is
chargeable to the Are. John A. Felt, a
bookkeeper, dropped dead from heart dis
ease produced by the excitement attend
ing the fire.
The building, 1309 to 1317 Market street,
Was occupied on the upper floors by the
umbrella, manufactory of Hirsch Bros.
TH6y also occupied the lower floor of
1399 as a sales room. Dennet’s eating
cafe occupied two other rooms on the
ground floor and the western room of the
building. No. 1317 Market street, was oc
cupied by Hanscom Bros., grocers. The
Hanscom'Bros, occupied the basement of
their store as a bakery, and In this base
ment two bakers were at work This
morning. Their furnace was overheated,
a little spark flew out. a blaze followed
and almcst in an instant the two men
were stretched half conscious on the
floor by the smoke. The smoke curled its
way up through the floor and a porter at
work sweeping out the room, dashed
into the street calling fire! A policeman
at the corner rung !h an alarm and then
went back to the building to Investigate
the fire. Some one bethought themselves
of the two bakers and two young nmn
bravely rescended through the smoke
and dragged the half suffocated men out.
The first engine was on the scene three
minutes after the alarm was struck, but
Hie fire was already bursting through
i the floors. It was a fearful morning to
fight a fire. The thermometer was near
zero and the first line of hose as it was
unrolled, burst and covered everything
surrounding with water that turned to
ice the moment it struck. The flames
gained on the firemen and alarm after
alarm was rung in until every engine In
the city was hurrying to the scene.
Thousands of workers on their way to
their places of business were attracted by
(he fire and streets in tne vicinity speedi
ly became Impassable from the curious
and surging throng. The police forced
the crowd back by mighty efforts and got
their fire ropes up and the firemen were
able to work at a better advantage.
The trolley cars were brought to a
standstill and the deadly wires by which
they are run began to snap In the vicinity
of the fire and. hang down into the street,
threatening death to all who came In
contact with them. The current was
soon turned off.
The flames In the meanwhile had eaten
their way through the Hirsch building
and broke through the room. Hirsch
Bros, employed about 500 hands, mostly
girls, but as few of them had arrived at
work when the fire broke out, those that
were there easily made their way to the
street before the flames reached the top
stories.
A strong wind from the west fanned
the fire and carried burning brands of de
struction to the roofs of the surrounding
buildings.
The firemen worked under the most
discouraging conditions, the hose men
and ladder men taking their lives In their
hands as they crawled up the rounds of
their ladders. The streets around the
fire were coated with ice, and neither men
nor horses could maintain their footing
except by the exercise of the greatest
caution. A peculiarity of the fire as It
grew larger, was the great quantity of
smoke. This further handicapped the
firemen. The smoke at times would de
scend to the street in an almost solid
cloud-and the firemen were driven back
gbsplng for breath.
It was soon seen that the Hirsch build
ing was doomed and the firemen turned
their attention to saving the adjoining
properties. At first this seemed to be a
Hopeless task. Building after building
along Market street crumbled beneath
the touch of the fiery tongues of flame
enwrapping them, and when the rear wall
of the Hirsch building fell Into Silver
street the fire leaped across and entered
the seven story iron building fronting
op Filbert street, occupied by Dunlap &
Clark, prlpters; the Collins Carriage
Manufacturing company and numerous
other firms. The entire block at this
time was honeycombed by fire.
The firemen feared that the great Wan
amaker establishment would go and they
had watched it like hawks. Mr. Wan
amaker himself had arrived early and
dismissing the greater number of his
3,500 employes, marshalled uryler his own
direction the fire force of the store. These
men were on the low roof of the Market
street front and they speedily quenched
the burning brands that fell there. Then
the Market street front of the Hlrseh
building fell Into the street. A torrent
of fire rolled out and flowed across the
wide street and' broke against Wanamak
er’s. The building shriveled and blis
tered beneath the fierce deluge and a
tongue of flame shot from-the high clock1
tower at the corner of Thirteenth and
Market streets. The jets from the hose
could not reach the flames in the tower
and the entire building seemed threatened
with destruction. The tower crumbled
and fell and this proved the salvation
of the building for the firemen were able
to fight the heart of the fire and soon had!
it under control, although the entire Mar
ket street front of the store was deluged
with water and the whole building was
permeated with smoke. Under the di
rections of Chief Baxter, of the fire de
partment, Mayor Warwick and Director
of Public Safety Riter, the firemen did
magnificent work and by noon they suc
ceeded in obtaining the upper hand of
the fire.
Though the fronts of the buildings on
the east side of Thirteenth street were
scortched. the fire was confined to the
block in which It started. Hlrseh Bros.1
building was completely destroyed and
all the other buildings on the Market
street front, with the exception of the
grocery store of Showell & Fryer, at Jun
iper and Market streets, went down in
destruction. The small stores along
Thirteenth street to Silver street, shared
the same fate, but the rest of the block
escaped entire destruction. It was gutted
and ravaged by the flames, but the losses
at that part will not be total. While
the firemen were struggling with the
fire, two alarms came In from other sec
tions of the city and it was necessary to
withdraw several engine companies and
send them whence these alarms came.
Fortunately these fires were small and
the companies were able to return to the
scene of the greatest destruction.
FORTY IN CHICAGO.
At One of Which Seven Firemen Were
Injured—Three Will Die.
Chicago, Jan. 26.—During a destructive
fire tonight In the six-story structure at
196, 198 , 200 and 202 Monroe Btreet, occu
pied by wholesale firms, ten persons were
seriously Injured, seven of whom were
firemen, three of them will probably die.
The structure, with Its contents, was al
most entirely destroyed.
The loss is estimated at not less than
$380,000. The building, which is the prop
erty of W. M. Williams, Is damaged to
the extent of $150,000. The other losses
by the fire are among the following firms:
Wursburger Bros., wholesale dealers in
woolens and underwear; J. H. Foster &
Hons, trimmings ana woolens; rownssna
& Yale, dealers In ladles jackets; the
Continent Shoe company; the Pickwick
Clothing company; A. M. Stewart & Co.,
clothing and dry goods; the National
Rubber company; the Eureka Silk com
pany. The stocks of those various firms
were entirely lost. All the losses are ful
ly covered by Insurance.
The Are originated on the first floor of
the building, which is occupied by the
Wursburger Bros. A fire wall divided
the building in the center, but it only
afforded a temporary barrier for the
flames. The upper two stories of the
west wall fell upon the adjoining building,
which is but four stories high. From the
roof of this structure two fire companies
were directing the streams of water into
the building, and several of the firemen
were buried under the debris, when the
wall fell. They were carried from the
roof in an unconscious condition and re
moved to hospitals. Some of the specta
tors were slightly injured by falling par
ticles, but only three were hurt seriously
enough to require the services of an am
bulance to remove them to their homes.
There were about forty fires In Chicago
today, but many of them were extin
guished with small losses.
FOUR CHARRED VICTIMS
Found In the Debris of a Burned Farm
House—A Husband’s Awful Find.
Belleville, Mich., Jan. 26.—The farm
bouse of A. E. Vandawater, located three
miles south of this place, was destroyed
by fire early this morning and four per
sons were burned to death. They were:
MRS. VANDAWATER and her two
children, a boy aged 8 and a girl aged 14.
MISS ANNA VANDAWATER, a sis
ter of Mr. Vandawater.
Mr. Vandawater was away from home
and it was not until daylight this morn
ing that it was known that the house had
burned. The remains of the victims have
been recovered, but in a horribly charred
condition. It is not known how the fire
started, but it is believed it started from
an overheated stove.
A LAMP EXPLODES,
Causing a Destructive Fire and the Doss
of One Dife.
Fort Smith, Ark., Jan. 26.—The New
Windsor hotel was destroyed by fire this
morning, and I. H. Pray, egg buyer for
a Chicago commission house, was burned
to death. Many of the other guests had
narrow escapes In their night clothes,
and all lost their baggage: The fire was
caused by the explosion of a lamp. In
addition to the hotel, Shoptaw’s barber
shop, Miller’s Jewelry store and Moore’s
second-hand stove store were burned.
Doss, 26,000, with partial Insurance.
FATADITIES AT A FURNACE.
Columbus, O., Jan. 26.—A press special
from Jackson, O., tonight says the Star
furnace, the largest iron manufacturing
plant in that city, burned late this after
noon. The fire was caused by the burst
ing of the lower part of the stock, allow
ing the gas and molten metal to escape.
Hugh Martin, who was working on the
top of the stack, was burned to a crisp.
He was 60 years of age and leaves a wife/
and seven children. Frank Davis, work
ing near the bottom of the stack was
caught by the molten metal and fatally
burned. He Is 55 years old and has a
family. The loss to the company Is not
more than $10,000 as the furnace was
old styled and must soon have been re
placed with a new one.
FATAD GAS EXPDOSION.
Berlin, Ont., Jan. 26.—A serious explo
sion occurred at the gas works here to
night, killing Foreman William Aldridge
and probably fatally Injuring Manager
Carl Breithapt and an ehiploye named
Weller. It is reported the explosion was
caused by a workman accidentally drop
ping a lighted cigar into one of the tanks.
A NARROW ESCAPE.
Roanoke, Va„ Jan. 26.—The Norfolk
and Western station narrowly escaped
destruction by fire tonight. The fire
was discovered over the restaurant
in the offices occupied by Car Inspectors
Meadows and Carr. The entire depart
ment was called to the scene and after a
hard fight the flames were subdued.
Caused by a defective flue. Damage not
known, but fully insured.
FREIGHT HOUSE BURNED.
St. Douis, Mo., Jan. 26.—The newly
erected freight house pf the Big Four rail
road In East Bt. Douis. together with an
Immense amount of merchandise, was de
stroyed by fire this afternoon. The total
loss Is estimated at $100,000. There Is lit
tle Insurance. The fire was caused by the
explosion of a barrel of oil.
A REPRESENTATIVE MEETING
In the Interest of International
Arbitration
EMBODIED IN THE TREATY
Between the United States and Great Britain
Now Pending in the Senate.
LETTER CARDINAL GIBBONS
And a S ,C ,g Address by Associate Jus
wer of the Supreme Court
use a Sentiment Favor
able to the Measure.
—
W ngton, Jan. 26.—A very distin
guish audience, representative of in
fluential social and religious elements
of the national capital filled the Grand
opera 'house at 4 o'clock this afternoon
"to attest their approbation of the groat
prlnclp4e of International arbitration as
embodied in the treaty between this re
public and Great Britain now pending In
the senate.”
Hon. John W. Foster, ex-secretary of
state, who called the meeting to order
pointedly disclaimed any purpose of crit
icising or seeking unduly to hasten or
Influence the action of the senate. He
said he recognized the senate as a co-or
dinate branch of the government. He
closed by saying:
"I venture, however, to say, speaking
for myself, that the final action of the
senate will not be such as to defeat the
treaty which Is desired by the great ma
jority cf the people of the United States,
and whose defeat would discredit this
government in the eyes of the civiliz'd
world.”
The outcome of the meeting was ilie
urnnlruous sorption of a resolution de
claring that "be'ievlng this treaty to be
a distinct advance towards the best civ
ilization, and trusting that it may prove
a helpful example for other nations, we
shall hail with joy and patrlotic'pride its
confirmation by the senate of the United.
States.”
Mr. Gardner G. Hubbard was the pre
siding officer.
Prof. B. L. Whitman, of Columbian
university, made some pointed remarks
about two diseases prevailing in Amer
ican social life, one known as angloma
niac and another disease, largely politi
cal in its character, known as anglo
pliobia. He claimed that anglaphobki
was as unreasonable as anglon.aniac
was ridiculous.
Ex Senator John B. Henderson, for
irerly of Missouri, 1 ow of Washington,
delivered a vigorous address in support
of the general principle of arbitration,
lr; which he incidentally criticised the
tune of President Cleveland’s Venezue
lan message, and poked If arbitration tvas
good for England and Venezuela, why
not good for England and the United
States? Speaking of the objection that
the Monroe doctrine might be Involved in
this tnaty he said: "Let the Monroe
doctrine be placed in the crucible of hu
man reason. If we may claim under It
at ali. cur demands must be settled either
by arbitration or by war.”
At considerable length he argued in
favor of arbitration as the only rational
mode of settlement.
It was reserved to Associate Justice
Brewer, of the United States supreme
court, to rouse the meeting to Its high
est point of enthusiasm. The chilly
winds blowing through the wings of the
theater, caused overcoat collars to be
turned up and handkerchiefs to be tied
over bald places, and shivers to pass
around, but Justice Brewer's witty and
eloquent remarks caused even the In
clemency of the weather to be forgotten.
Justice Brewer who was introduced as
"the president of the Venezuelan com
mission," began by saying that when ha
received the request of the committee to
take part in the proceedings and was as
sured that the speeches would be limited
to five minutes, he came to the conelusiorf
that all he would have to do would be
to stand up and be counted in favor of
arbitration, because according tu his ex
periences, no lawyer could say what he
had to say under two hours. So h? had
come here to be counted in favor cf ar
bitration treaty. "When I say that,” con
tinued Justice Brewer, "I do 1.01 wisli to
be considered as one who would tres
pass upon the prerogative of the senate
to make a careful eanva-ss of evy line of
that treaty. I appreciate fully the words
of the senator irom Massac reuse ■.»», > •
Hoar), so recently uttered In protest
against pressure for Indecent basic. I
do not believe in saying to the gentle
men charged with the duty of consider
ing carefully that treaty that 'you must
vote for It,' there Is something In my
own nature which, when anybody says
to me 'you must,’ causes something to
run up my spinal column which says 'I
won’t. (Applause and laughter) It Is
the senate’s duty to consider that treaty
carefully and when I saj) that, I say
It Is no trespass upon their riglus for
American citizens to express their views
of that treaty. And, I am sure there Is
no one who will more cheerfully accord
that right than the senior senator Lora
Massachusetts. (Mr. Hoar), whom we
all delight to honor. In spite of all the
intimations I see in the press. I believe
»hat the senate will not declare Itself in
favor of the law, but against Its enforce
ment ’ They will act upon it with the de
sire to do the best for the interests not
alone of this country, but of the world.
(Applause.) •
“I know Judges make mistakes, con
tinued Justice Brewer. "Having been
on the bench many years, I know It is
dangerous to submit grave questions to
such a tribunal, and If I could sec here
one of my brothers with whom 1 have
been associated for two years, referring
to Justice Harlan, one of the Berhing sea;
arbitrators) I think I could illustrate
that at his expense. (Laughter.) But
then what are the errors and losses inci
dental to arbitration compared to the
horrors of war? (Applause.)
“What are a few million dollars or
wrongful damage In comparison to the
sacrlrtces of thousands of human lives?’
Justice Brewer, in his peroration
brought down the house by a brief but
dramatic poem on "Lost Opportunities,'
which he said had been written by Ills
fellow citizen, ex-SenRtor John J. Ingalls,
of Kansas. He declared In ringing tones
his opinion that the United 3tai.es had
now an opportunity, which If once lost
might never be regained.
Gov. Stannard, of Missouri, from thft
National Board of Trade, presented th«
resolutions in favor Of arbitration adopt
ed by that body.
The following letter from Cardinal Gib
bons was read?
Rev. Dennis 8. Hamlin, ;
Dear Sir—I beg to acknowledge you*
(Continued oil Filth Page.)' 3gs?; y r/j? vf*
-i **
2H * *
—- i. . — -: -.-...-—-*. ... —... -■<■•■ - -
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 1897. NUMBER 9
.
»" ■ ■■■ ■ -■ - — , ... . — -—-.. ... ' ■ — - ■' - ■ "■ ' —' ■ . 1 — ■ ■ -■■■■
BUSY DAY INJOTH HOUSES
Anti-Pool Bill Receives a Favor
able Report,
A RIDER IS ATTACHED
In Mr. NeSmitb's Bill to Prohibit Buying or
Selling of Futures.
SENATOR CUNNINGHAM’S SPEECH
In Advocacy of Hia Convict Bill Oooupies
the Morning Hours of the Senate
—Bills Introduced and
Acted Upon.
0
Montgomery, Jan. 27—(Special Staff
Correspondence.)—Two sessions of both
branches of the legislature made mat
ters interesting here today around the
capltol.
Senator Cunningham occupied the en
tire morning session of the senate in an
able speech in advocay of his convict
bill.
The committee on revision of laws re
ported favorably on the anti-pool bill.
It was made the special order for next
Wednesday.
Mr. NeSmith offered a bill to prohibit
the buying or selling of futures In the
state.
The house refused to reconsider the
vote by which the back tax commission
bill was passed, and It now goes to the
senate.
The house committee on commerce and
common carriers reported adversely the
bill to create a new railroad commission
and enact a new code of laws to govern
railroads.
A minority report was, however, filed
by members of the committee, favoring
the passage of the bill, and was placed on
the calendar under an adverse report.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The following bills were introduced in
the house today:
H. 939, By Mr. Lavender (by request)—
To alter and define the boundary line
between Bibb and Shelby counties, in
the state of Alabama. County and coun
ty boundaries.
H. 940, By Mr. Shamblin—To establish
a separate school district in Cherokee
county, to be known as the “Leesburgh
school district.” Education.
H. 941, By Mr. Campbell—To amend an
act to incorporate the town of Chulafln
nee, in the county of Cleburne. Corpora
tions.
H. 942, Alsa—To amend section 1 of an
act entitled an act to amend an act en
titled an act for the relief of needy con
federate-soldiers and sailors residents of
Alabama, who from wounds or other
causes, are now unable to earn a live
lihood, and for the widows of such as
were killed or died in said war, and have
not since remarried, approved Feb. 18,
1895. Ways and means.
H. 943, By Mr, Beasley—To allow per
sons, other than doctors, who effect a
cure of cancers, to charge for and collect
the same. Public health.
H. 944, By Mr. Pitts—To amend section
3612 of the code of Alabama. Judiciary.
H. 946, By Mr. Appling (by request)—To
abolish the charter of the town of Rose
dale Park, in Jefferson county, Ala.
Corporations.
H. 946, By Mr. Greene—To change de
fine and establish the line between the
counties of Jefferson and Walker from
the Blount county line to the Warrior
river. County and county boundaries.
H. 948, By Mr. Altman—To amend sec
tion 4191 of the code of 1886 excluding the
county of Jefferson from the operations
of said section, except on the day on
which any election is held. Local legis
lation.
II. 949, By Mr. NeSmith—To fix and
regulate the fees of the registers in chan
cery of Lamar and Fayette counties. Re
vision of laws.
H. 960, Also—To prevent the buying or
selling of cotton, meat, wheat or other
commodity under contract agreement for
the future delivery thereof lyithln or
without this state. Revision of laws.
H. 951, By Mr. Barnes—For the more
efficient government of the district of
Opelika by securing the number of com
missioners from seven to five, one of
whom to be elected as recorder and au
thorizing the election of clerk and chief
of police and other subordinate officers by
said board. Judiciary.
H. 952, By Mr. Waller, of Montgomery,
(by request)—To amend an act approved
Feb. 13, 1895, to levy a tax, state and
county, on all peddlers of road carts, sew
ing machines, cooking stoves, watches,
clocks, bedquilts, cloaks and balmorals
in the counties of Wilcox, Hale, Dallas,
Macon, Calhoun, Chambers, Marengo,
Sumpter, Choctaw, Lowndes, Talladega,
Barbour, Elmore, Coosa, Tallapoosa,
Clarke and Madison. Ways and Means.
•H. 963, By Mr. Gaston—To authorize
deeds, contracts, conveyances, or other
Instruments to be recorded again In Ran
dolph county. Revision of laws.
H. 954, by Mr. Lawson—To amend sec
tion 2311 (2674)* of -the code. Judiciary.
H. 955, by /Mr. 'Hill—To- amend section
3787 (4344) of the code of Alabama. Ju
diciary.
H. i966, Also—To amend section 3787
(4344) of the code o| Alabama. Judiciary.
BILLS'PASSED.
H. 373 (with amendment)—To prevent
persons who maks loans or advance
money or other thing of value upon, cot
ton or agricultural products tio be de
livered In the future, from exacting or
contracting for commissions for selling
or storing! cotton or othe'fi agricultural
products not actually grown by the bor
rower. Passed,
H. 356—To exempt from jury duty all
regularly! employ-*! licensed pharmacists
lniAlahama. Lost.
H. 391—To amend section 1364 of the
code of 188G. Passed.
H. 39—To incorporate the West Ala
bama |Male and Female College. Passed.
H. 189—To allow soldiers and sailors of
the leonfedorat? states of America, who
have been' residents of the state for
five years next Ibefora the passage of
this act, to peddle In produce and mer
chandise in each and every county of
. this state, except In Incorporated villages,
towns land'cities, without payment of the
stipulated license) and providing the
manner of obtaining- such llo-e-nse. Passed.
H. 8184, By Mr. Green, of Jefferson—To
provide for the compensation of the reg
istrar of voters of Jefferson county.
H. 699—To repeal an act to amend an
act for the protection of lands and plan
tations from depredations by stock in
Bullock county, Ala., approved Feb. 17,
1886.
H. 676—To amend section 1 of an act
to prevent hogs from running at large In
Madison county, approved Feb. 16, 1891.
H. 493, By Mr. Hearo—To provide for
the election of a county superintendent
of education for Choctaw county. Tabled.
8. 285—To provide for and regulate the
sale of liquors and other Intoxicating
drinks in Dale county, Ala.
H. 729—To prevent stock from running
at large in Beat No. 10 of Hale county.
H. 826—To provide a charter for the
city of Mobile.
H. 543—To require the tax assessor and
tax collector of Marion county to keep
their offices within one mile of the court.
H. 617—For tihe preservation of game in
Montgomery county.
S. 207—To establish a charter for the
city of Jemison, in Chilton county, Ala.
H. 386—To prohibit the sale, giving
away, or otherwise disposing at vin
ous, spirituous or malt liquors, intoxicat
ing cider, bitters or beverages within
a radius of six miles of the Methodist
church in Gordon, 'Henry1 county, Ala
bama. Passed.
H. 438—To amend an act approved Feb
ruary 14, 1891, entitled an act “to fix
tlretlma and (placeliof holding the circuit
courts in the various counties compos
ing thefNinth Judicial circuit of the state
of Alabama. Passed.
H. 474—To amend an act to prevent
hunting on land without written constant
of owner or Ms agent in Dallas, Madi
son. Autauga, Macon, Sumter, Talladega,
Bullock and' Oak Grove, Perryville and
Hadfordvllle; beats, of Perry county, and
beats No. 2 and 9, in Hale county, ap
proved February 18, 1891. Passed.
H. 625 (with amendments)—To prohibit
the sale, giving away, delivering or dis
posing of spirituous, vinous or malt
liquors or aqy intoxicating bitters or
beverages within1 one mile of Old Mt.
Zion Baptist church, Barbour county.
Passed.
S. 46—To repeal a certain act entitled
"an act to incorporate the town of Alco,
in the county of Escambia and state of
Alabama,” approved Feb. 13, 1889, and
to provide for the payment of the out
standing indebtedness of said town.
H. 683—To ratify and confirm the char
ter of the Montgomery Infirmary, and to
confer additional powers on said oorpor
ntlnn
H. 619—To repeal all laws and parts of
laws prohibiting the sale, giving away
or otherwise disposing of vinous, spiritu
ous or malt liquors or intoxicating bit
ters or beverages in Guntersvllle beat in
Marshall county, Ala., and to regulate
the sale thereof in said beat.
H. 370—To establish a uniform series of
school books, to be taught in the public
schools of Lauderdale county, Ala., and
to provide for a board to select the same.
H. 575—To amend section 84 of act to
regulate the management of state and
county convicts, approved Feb. 18, 1895,
so far as relates to Marlon and Bibb coun
ties.
H. 693—To declare W. F. Ponder, of the
county of Clay, a citizen of the county
of Talladega.
H. 53—To prohibit the sale, giving
away, or otherwise disposing of spirit
uous, vinous or malt liquors In Calhoun
county, Ala.
H. 862—To regulate the sale of spiritu
ous, vinous and malt liquors within the
corporate limits of the town of LaFayette,
Aid
H. 326 (under adverse report)—To repeal
an act to amend an act to better provide
for keeping up the public roads of Es
cambia county, which became a law Feb.
15, 1893.
H. 62—To incorporate a separate school
district known as the Ketcham school
district.
H. 168—To prohibit any person without
legal cause or good excuse from entering
upon the Inclosed premises of another in
Jefferson county, Ala.
HARWELL.
THE KNOTTY PROBLEM
Needs Amending Before a Favorable Re
port May Be Expected—The Umpire
Clause Causes Much Speculation.
Washington, Jan. 27.—The senate com
mittee on foreign relations today con
sidered the general treaty of arbitra
tion between this country and Great
Britain without reaching a conclusion.
The general drift of discussion indicated
that the instrument must be amended so
as to eliminate any possible Inclusion of
questions concerning the domestic or for
eign policy of either of the contracting
parties. It is believed by some members
of the committee that a conclusion 'Will
be reached at a special meeting Saturday
and that the treaty will be reported to the
senate Monday.
While it is believed that the treaty
may be mode satisfactory by one or two
amendments, each member of the com
mittee has his own idea as to extra out
lay to be employed in so doing. The
ardent friends of the Nicaraguan canal
insist that, in some way, that question
be lifted bodily from the treaty and
guarded against. The fear that Great
Britain may be seeking a pretext to in
terfere not only in our foreign policy, but
in domestic affairs as well, leads others
to urge an amendment providing that no
questions affecting either the domestic
or foreign policy of the contracting'par
ties shall be brought within the provi
sions of the general treaty. This, it is
contended, will also carefully guard the
Monroe doctrine without referring to it
In name. The designation in thp treaty
of the king of Norway and Sweden as
umpire, Ib causing the committee much
concern and in looking up the diplomatic
history of this northern country, the
committee has discovered that a com
pact exists between Great Britain and
France, on the one hand, and Norway
and Sweden on .the other, In which the
two great powers of the south agree to
stand by the weaker nation. The design
nation of King Oscar will, in all proba
bility, be eliminated and an amendment
reported requiring the selection of an
American umpire for American questions
and an European umpire when the mat
ter in dispute relates to foreign affairs in
the eastern hemisphere.
It is undersood that when the report on.
the treaty is made to the senate, a mo
tion will be made to discuss It In open
session. Some members of the commit
tee believe that this motion will carry
and that It will be a good thing for the
country to have this public debate.
OUT OF ONE DANGER
Stepped Flye Men. Into Another and
All of Them Were Killed—On
the Wrong Track.
New Haven, Conn., Jan. 27.—The Col
onial express on the Consolidated road,
eastbound, struck and killed live men at
East Norwalk about 2 o'clock this after
noon. The men had been working on
the track and stepped out of the way
of one train directly in front of another.
At this point there are four tracks and
the train the men desired to avoid and the
one which killed them were both moving
in the same direction. The killed were:
JAMES POWERS, section foreman.
DANIEL GILBERT.
JAMES SILK.
JOHN SHEA.
SALVATORE SPINTA.
The first four were instantly killed,
but Spinta lived a short time.
SCHOOL GIRLS' DEADLY COMBAT.
Charleston, S. C„ Jan. 27.—A special to
the News and Courier from Laurens. S.
C., says: Hattie Fletcher and Addle Fos
ter, colored school girls, fought yester
day, five miles.from this city. Addle re>
ceived a knife wound in the neck, from
which she died In a few hours.
1- ■
CADETS CANT PARTICIPATE
Senate Refuses to Appropriate
the Necessary Fund
TO PAY THEIR EXPENSES
And McKinley's Inauguration Must Go On
Without Them.
ALLEN, THE NEBRASKA POPULIST,
Gets in Some of His Characteristic Remarks
—Russian Jewish Immigrants the Ob
jectionable Characters in the
House Immigration Bill.
Washington, Jan. 27.—The military
academy appropriation bill was passed in
the senate today, after a long and some
what amusing controversy over one
amendment providing for the payment of
the expenses of the attendance of the
West Point cadets at the inauguration:
parade. The proposition was made the
text, by Mr. Allen (pop., Neb.) of a dis
sertation on the virtues of the old Jeftere
sonlan democratic simplicity, of the "dry
rot" which is destroying the American re
public as It destroyed the Roman empire,
and of an attack on Mr. Gray (dem., Del.)
for Inconsistency In attending demo
cratic caucuses and claiming to be a dem
ocrat, while “to all Interests and pur
poses, he had been a republican for the
last three or four years.” And there
was another distinguished senator, Mr.
Allen added, pointing to the seat of Mr.
Hill (dem. N. Y.), who said that he, too,
was a democrat. These remarks, made
■with all the seriousness characteristic of
the Nebraska populist senator, were re
ceived with smiles by the two senators
alluded to and by the whole senate.
Mr. Gray contented himself with the
remark that Mr. Allen was a melancholy!
example of the effect of populistic no
tions and that he would probably prefer
to have a contingent of Coxey's army at
tend the inauguration parade; and Mr.
Allen admitted that that would be a lit
tle more relevent.
Finally the amendment was rejected;
Yeas, 20; nays, 28, and the bill was passed.
It appropriates $479,572; or $5,000 more
than the bill as it passed the house. The
$5,000 Is for the purchase of one Maxim
semi-automatic llve-pounder, quick fir
ing gun.
The memorial of Henry A. Dupont, of
Delaware, in which he asserts that his
claim ito a seat in the senate was defeat
ed last session through a miscount, or
through a mistake about pairs, was pre
sented by Mr. Chandler (rep., N. H.),
and was referred to the committee on
privileges and elections.
The Nicaraguan bill was taken up.
It gave rise to quite a spirited debate, in
the course of which Mr. Sherman sug
gested although he would vote for the bill
in any form presented, that It would be
better to let It lie over until next session,
and Intimated that he would favor the
negotiations of a new treaty on the lines
of the FrellnghuySen-Seavals treaty. A
motion, to recommit the bill was made by
Mr. Vilas (dem., Wis.), and was pending
when the senate, at 4:45, adjourned until
tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
By a vote of 131 to 118, the house today
agreed to the conference report on the
Immigration bill, which embodied sub
stantially a new measure, being different
in some respects from either the senate
or house bill. Speeches in favor of the
report were made' by Messrs. Dan ford,
republican, of Ohio, who presented it
from the conferees; C. W. Stone, republi
can, of Pennsylvania; Johnson, republi
can, of Indiana; Corliss, republican, of
Michigan; Morse, republican, of Massa
chusetts; Wilson, democrat, of South
Carolina; Taylor, republican, of Ohio,
and Hepburn, republican, of Ilowa; and
in. opposition to it by MesBrB. Bantholdt,
republican, of Missouri, chairman of the
house committee, on immigration; Buck,
dembocrat, of Louisiana; Hartler, repub
lican, of New Jersey; Walker, republican,
of Massachusetts; Cannon, republican, of
Illinois; Grosvenor, republican, of Ohio;
Dolliver, republican, of Iowa, and Boat
n.er, democrat, of Louisiana.
Chairman Bartholdt refused to sign
the report of 'tihe committee recommend
ing the bill.
The principal objection to the bill was
the clause requiring immigrants to read
and write ‘Tn the language of their na
tive or resident country.” This, it was
pointed out. would prevent several class
es of people in Europe and in Central
America and Mexico from gaining ad
mission to the United States, because
they do not speak either of the languages
to which the clause limits them. It was
admitted that the language was intended
to prevent the coming of the great body
of Russian Jews.
The vote was takeh on the adoption of
the conference report, and on a division
It was agreed to, 116 to 105. Mr. Bar
tholdt demanded the yeas and nays,
which resulted: Teas, 131; nays, 117.
The usual motion to reconsider and to
lay the motion on the table having been
made by Mr. Danford and agreed to, the
house at 4:45 adjourned until tomorrow.
STRIKING SILK WORKERS.
Gain the Increased Wages Demanded,
and Othefs Also Strike.
Paterson, N. J., Jail. 27.—Three hundred
and fifty hands employed in the Phoenix
Bilk manufactory refused to go to work
this morning.
The Golden Rod mill employes were
the first to strike. The employers con
ceded their demand by increasing their
wages 20 per .cent. ... . ;....
The Golden Rod workmen winning
their strike has led the employes In all
the other flactorleB to believe that they,
•too, can get their wages restored to last
fall’s rates. _
THAT fiEELEY MATTER.
New York, Jan. 27.—This afternoon a
lawyer appeared In the general sessions
court and showing,a.,power of attorney
from Herbert B. Seeley, Theodore Rich
and James Phipps, indicted yesterday in
connection with..the.J3eelejt .dinner, en
tered a plea of not guilty, with leave to
withdraw it and substitute any other mo
tion he saw fit. None of the accused men
were in court. Ball .was fixed at $500, and
will be furnished In-a day or two.
DIVORCE AtJt) ALIMONY.
Washington, D. C„ Jan. 27.—Judge
Cox today granted a divorce to Bailie A.
Harris form Charles H. Harris, son of
Senator Harris, of Tennessee. The suit
was filed on September 26 last. The court
granted the custody of the child, a son,
to his mother, and also ordered the de
fendant to pay jMia Harflf alimony in
the aum of 17$ per'month.. Desertion Is
■aid to be the charge;
» •- - r * If --
■ ' * v * ■ 1
NOTHING BHPENDENCE
Will Satisfy the Cubans Says
Maxemo Gomez.
NO HALF WAY DOINGS WILL
Satisfy the Insurgents—Every Vestige of Spain
and Her Minions
MUST BE FOREVERMORE' ERASED
r
Spanish Officers Go Over to the Cubans—
i. Carevag Continues HU Horrible Butch
eries—Weyler Has a Close Call.
Guerillas Meet Defeat.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 27.—The Evening
Constitution published an authentic In
terview with Gen. Maximo Gomez, In
which he denies he ever wrote a letter
favoring home rule for Cuba. He opposes
a compromise with Spain, and eays if he
had 60,000 rifles and 1,000 cartridges for
each, he could drive Weyler off the Island
within a month. The general criticises
Mr. Cleveland for non-interference.
The interview was obtained by C. B.
Hernando, who was sent to Cuba by
Rev. A. J. Diaz, with a commission to
have a personal interview with Gen. Go
mez on the subject of compromise and
peace.
Dr. Diaz is the Baptist missionary who
Waft released from Mauro Castle last sum
mer through the Intervention of the
United States. Mr. Hernando wrote him
from Jaruco, under date of January 19.
Hernando went from Atlanta direct to
Havana. He left that city as a Cuban
cowboy, and in two days the latter
reached thy camp of Gomez In the moun
tains of Los Escaleras de Jaruca.
Hernando says:
“Although it was not yet 6 o’clock In the
morning, the general was up, booted,
wearing his large sombrero and a clean
linen dres®. The only arms he wore
was a small Spanish revolver.
“Upon acquainting the general with
the report that he had given his adhe
sion to the policy of home rule or auton
omy for Cuba, the same as accorded to
Canada by Great Britain, he said em
phatically:
“ ‘No, sir; X have written no such let
ter, mm given my assent to the policy.
I am general In command of the Cuban
forces, and my only business Is to plan
and fight battles in order to drive out
the Spanish government from Cuba and
to conduct the war to a successful issue.
I have been entrusted with this duty by
the Cuban government through Its proper
agencies.
*' 'If any action is ever taken ini regard
to the political settlement of Cuba It will
have to be by President Cisneros and his
cabinet, who alone are authorized to act.
Bes' les this, there is an article In the
ConSritution which we have adopted pro
viding that even the president and his
cabinet would have to call the general
assembly to settle such an important
matter as this. My only duty is to light
to keep the banner of Cuba flying, and
In no manner would I conflict with the
properly constituted authority of my
government!’
"But,” I asked the general, “do you
know of any movement even on the part
of the government for such a purpose
as this?”
“Why, no,” replied the general, 'meuu
ban people were never so determined ns
they are now. At no time since the be
ginning has the army been in better con
t dltion or better drilled than lit is at pres*
ent. Our men are full of enthusiasm for
the Independence of our country, and
never in its history have they been so
set against taking advantage of any tem
porary offer. The Cuban army and the
Cuban people have started ouit for abso
lute independence, and they will never
lay down their arms until it has been
aohieved.”
Directing the attention of General Go
mez to the unfrienly policy of Mr. Cleve
land, he smiled grimly and said:
"When we rose up in arms against
Spanish tyranny, we did so trusting in
God and ourselves. We knew the enemy
whom we had elected to meet, so that
we did not measure the stature of the
giant or the power of the lion. Conse
quently we are here, armed and organ
ized and ready to sacrifice our lives for
Cuba.”
The general walked up an down as he
spoke, his eyes flashing, then he added:
“I know I should be guarded in what I
say. Mr. Cleveland is at the head of a
great nation, for whose people I have the
most profound respect, and he is well ac
quainted with the truth, but no man who
was not of Anglo-Saxon descent could
aot sd cold-bloodedly as he has done. I
know all the people of the United States
are in favor of our cause, and am ac
quainted with the position of the United
States senators, though there has been
some friction among them, for which I
am Borry.
"There is one thing, however, that I
do\ not understand—how it Is that Mr.
Cleveland can be so complacent with the
Spanish government, which has Insulted
his flag, as Weyler has done in Cuba, and
mobs have done in, Spain: how Mr. Cleve
land can rest content when he sees the
Spanish government shedding the inno
cent blood of non-combatants, Is past my
comprehension. If It was only for hu
manity’s sake he ought to stop the bar
barities in a friendly way.”
At this point the general dropped that
phase of the conversation, and in reply
to a question, as to how long he thought
the war would last, said:
“If I could have 60,000 rifles, and 1,000
cartridges for each gun, I would clean
Weyler and his troops from the island
inside of thirty days. I have endeavored
In my conduct of the war to observe the
rules of humanity. I have refrained al
most at the cost of revolution in my
ranks from making reprisals for bar
barities never known in history before.
We refognize that we are in this fight for
life or death; that even the strongest sug
gestion of peace which Spain can make,
is only for the purpose of gaining ad
vantage.
•“If Spain today should offer us the
most complete home rule, backed by the
United States, slhe would fail to keep her
promise, then we would have to wait for
the United States to enforce the agree
ment, and that enforcement would never
come, for there will always be commercial
and other interests strong enough to
keep the rulers of nations in cohesion
with each other. There is one thing In
which we trust, that Is the disappear
ance of the Spanish name and Spanish
army, and Spanish flag, and thf suprem
acy of the people of Cuba.”
BJgDBASOD ON BOND.
Jacksonville, Jla., Jan. 27.—The steam
er. Three Friends and Dauntless, wMch
have been in custody of the United States
marshal for several weeks, were released
on bond today by order of the United
States court. The bond of the Dauntless
was $15,000 and that of the Three Friends
$5,000. The Dauntless was already under
bond of $7,500 in two cases, and the Three
Friends was under bond of $17,000 in two
cases.
morTrecruits
From Spanish Ranks Join the Insurgents
—Shocking Reports of Gen.
Careva's Doings.
Key West, Fla., Jan. 27.—Passengers by
the Olivette tonight report that Gonzalo
Moreno, one of the most prominent cit
izens of Puerto Principe, for ten years
mayor of the city, and a rebel colonel in
the last war, has joined the insurgents.
He became indignant at the outrages
committed by Spaniards in arresting dis
tinguished ladies and gentlemen, reported'
last week. ,
Venancio Sorenz, a Spaniard, conf 4
manding a detachment of troops in San
tiago de Cuba, has joined the insurgents,
carrying the arms and ammunition of the
fort he had in charge, consisting of 100
rifles and 5,000 rounds of ammunition.
An expedition is said to have landed at
Da Caleta, near Cape Maysoe. It is also
reported that Duis Rivero, gave a severe
thrashing to Gen. Melguize, near Vlnales,
and inflicted heavy losses, the Spaniards
losing thirty dead and eighty wounded.
This is known at the palace, but the fact
has not been given out officially, because
they still persist in making the people
believe there is no fighting in Pinar del
Rio, the rebels being all demoralized and
scattered all over the country.
It is reported that when Weyler was
marching down Candela hill, near
Guines, six shots were fired on him by
some party hidden in the bushes nearby,
wounding a lieutenant at his side and a
private. It is also rumored that two of
his adjutants were wounded.
La Luchas telegrams from Washing
ton yesterday occasioned considerable
laughter, saying that De Lome had com
municated to the state department that
the provinces of Havana and Matanzas
were virtually pacified, and that all su
gar estates in these sections were actu
ally grinding, when, in fact, not one es
tate in either of these sections, nor any
other, as far as known in Havana, are
grinding since all cane fields are now on
fire. The Toledo estate, right at the
gates of Havana, has had to stop grind
ing because it has no cane, all having
been burned.
Advices received from Sagua la Grande
from a trustworthy source give shocking
details of the doings of the notorious Cap
tain Carreras, of the local guerrillas of
the place, and well known for the partici
pation he took in the outrage committed
on the American citizens last year. On
the 16th instant, passing by the town of
Malpeaz, six miles southeast of Sagua,
he ordered it burned, and at the same
time he arrested and carried off a num
ber of the peaceful citizens of the town.
Amongst them four well known in Sa
gua, and he had them all hacked to pieces
wilth machetes. One named Francisco
Diaz was a quiet, unoffensive man, high
ly esteemed for his honesty and hard
working qualities.
The guerilla chief brought into Sagua
the dead bodies of four pacificos, one of
them a poor cripple, only 28 years of
age, with a wife and three children. A
French citizen, on whose farm this poor
cripple, Estanislao Roque, was employed,
says that he viewed the dead body after
being brought Into town, and that the
imprint of the cords with which he was
bound were plainly visible. The names
of the rest of the killed are as follows:
PEDRO NODARSE, aged 23, leaves
wife and seven children.
JOSEPH ROQUE, aged 26, leaves wife
and four children.
FRANCISCO DIAZ, aged 38, leaves
wife and seven children.
BSTANISLAO ROQUE, aged 28, leaves
wife and three children.
A member of Carreas guerrillas gave
the above facts, and when asked if he
did dislike such a method of warfare, he
cooly replied: “At first It was sickening
to me, but now I do not mind it." He
also Informed them that they had orders
from the commander of that zone to
kill everybody and everything in sight,
burn everything they could burn, and
that which would not burn, should be
cut down, even to banana trees. That
this is being done, there is Information
from unquestioned sources. The same
authority says he witnessed over twenty
families trudging into Sagua la Grande,
driven front 'Malpease. Some of the
women and children were virtually nude.
He' also says that in the towns of Quen
'mado de Guinee, fifteen miles west of
Sagua, there are 300 families camped
inside of the fortifications, with nothing
to eat and no shelter, driven from their
little country huts, which the Spanish
troops burrned, together with their cloth
ing, etc. He also learned from a Span
ish officer that three days ago Gomez's
infantry camped on the Manajaboa
plantation, 'between Santa Clara and
Camajuanl. He also informed the same
party that there is no doubt Gomez had
received a big expedition at some point
along the Sagua coast.
One of the ultra Spaniards said to him
a few days ago: "I cannot understand
the motives of our government In de
stroying the Island. We Spaniards own
or have interests in most of it, and by
the policy being pursued the Spaniards
are the real sufferers." Beyond question
the troops have authority to lay waste
wherever they go. The situation in Sas
ua can be summarized thus:
The insurgents, convinced that the
troops will destroy everything in reach,
have ensconced themselves behind the
hills and giving them full play, but tills
should not be regarded as cowardly on
the part of the rebels in making not ef
fort to prevent their non-combatants
from being murdered, as they have
enough to do in keeping their own against
the overpowering forces they have to
contend with.
The rabid Spanish papers of Clenfugos
report that the local guerrillas of Man
cas, a town about ten miles from Santo
Domingo, met an insurgent force; that
seventeen guerrillas -were killed out
right and the balance had disappeared.
The insurgent account of it is they killed!
nine guerrillas and captured the entire
band.
As the guerrillas receive no mercy at
the hands of the insurgents, the Spanish
report of the disappearance is about cor
rect,
FLORIDA WILL FREEZE UP.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 27.—At 9 o’clock
tonight the mercury had fallen to 29
degrees in Jacksonville, with a west wind
and barometer of 80.12. This indicates
that! north Florida will experience a
freeze. As the trucking interests of the
northern portion of the state are meagre,
no great damage is expected. Readings
at 7 o'clock tonight were: Jacksonville,
38; Jupiter, 60; Key West, 68; Tampa, 32.
SHOT IN SELF-DEFENSE.
Plant City, Fla., Jan. 27.—At Turkey
Creek, a station about four mile* from
here, on the Florida Central and Penin
sula railroad, today about 2 o'clock, W.
E. Moody, agent of the Florida Central
and Peninsula at that place, shot and
killed John Odom, a farmer of that vi
cinity. The men were brothers-ln-law,
and Moody shot In self-defense.
FAVORED THEJENTENNIAL
National Association of Manufac
turers in Convention
MEMORIALIZE CONGRESS
In Ref£*ce to the Tariff Question, Though
Not Without Heated Debate.
•$ —
AFRICAN INDUSTRIES FIRST
'9foreign Competitors Last, the Gist of
V. a, Resolxition Adopted Which Will Be
*/
5 Transmitted to the National Law
Makers-Favors Bottled Spirits.
Philadelphia, Jan. 27.—The convention
of the National Association of Manufac
turers, In session here today, adopted
resolutions favoring the Tennessee Cen
tennial exposition, which opens Its gates
on May 1, 1897, and arei commending that
the members of the National Association,
of Manufacturers give It their most cor
dial support.
The committee to consider the question?
of tariff reported the following resolu
tions:
Resolved, That It Is the sense of the
National Association of Manufacturers
that the tariff law should be revised at
the earliest possible moment, in order
that uncertainty may be removed, confi
dence restored and business permitted to
revive.
Resolved, That the rates of duty
should be made a® low as possible con
sistent with the adequate protection of
our manufacturing and agricultural In
dustries and the labor they employ. The
tariff should contain only specific duties
or mixed ad valorem and specific duties.
Resolved, That congress be invited to
re-establish and extend the system of
reciprocity, which may be employed to
secure for us tariff favors in Latln-Amer
ican and other markets, in which we are
the largest buyers, while Europe is the
preferred seller, solely because of the
lower wage rates and lower general costs
of production In European factories.
The resolution® caused a lively discus
sion. Mr. Hamilton, of California, con
tended that Importers had no business in
the convention, as their interests are di
rectly opposed to the interests of the
manufacturers of the United States. He
asserted that congress Is compos 'd large
ly of lawvers and scheming politicians,
who "hold the country up” simply to get
the popular vote of the country.
Mr. Hamilton said that he had no use
for the convention if It did not demand
adequate protection. Mr. Hamilton
charged that the importers of the coun
try are lobbying to have the ways and
means committee make the duties In the
new bill as low as possible. Mr. Hamil
ton spoke earnestly as he pleaded for a
high protective tariff, and was warmly
applauded as he continued.
Mr. Hastings, of Delaware, criticised
Mr. Hamilton’s remark as tending to mis
lead. probably unintentionally, the con
vention as to the sense of the resolutions.
Mr Hastings argued that the words
in the resolution “should be made as low
as possible” did not mean that American
Industries should receive full protection.
Mr. Hamilton replied to Mr. Hastings and
objected to the resolution being made to
represent the sense of the association, on
the question of the tariff. Mr. Hamilton
prophesied that the competition of Japan
and other oriental countries, would ruin
the United States unless their goods
are barred out.
Mr. Hamilton asked that the words as
low as possible” in the resolution, be
stricken out. In the course of his re
marks, Mr. Hamilton referred to Mr.
Hastings’ business—iron plates -and Mr.
Hastings reported that he did not want
any higher protection in his business
and he believed he voiced the wishes of
all those in his business when he said
that the present duty was high enough.
Mr Heber Clarke, replying for the
committee, stated that the resolutions
were prepared with the idea of meeting
the wishes of all as far as between ex- •
treme high protection and low protection.
Mr. Clarke explained that the word
“adequate’’ was Intended to mean a duty
which would be protect, for instance, if
one article wants 10 per cent, protection
and another 100 per cent, then the asso
ciation asked for these duties and so ad
equate protection would be afforded each
of these industries.
Mr. Tompkins, of North Carolina, ar
gued for a duty between the extreme
protectionists and the free traders and
favored the resolutions.
G. F. Hanson, of Macon, Ga.. a member
of the committee, argued at length in fa
vor of the resolution. Mr. Hanson con
tended thait a moderate tariff with fair
protection should be asked for.
Mr. Solomon, of Newark, N. J., regis
tered himself againts the words "as low
as possible.”
An amendment striking out the words
“as low as possible,” and substituting
the words “shall be as low as consistent
with,” was offered. On a vote the
amendment was agreed to by a vote of
75 to 61.
On motion the wordB "rates of duty’’
were changed to read "that dudes shall
be as," etc. The resolutions were then
adopted unanimously.
It was agreed to send a copy of the
resolutions as passed to eRch member of
this and the next congress.
The following resolution Introduced
from the committee on resolutions was
agreed to after some debate:
“The senate of the United States
Is hereby urgently requested to enact
such a law as will allow distillers to bot
tle distilled spirits in bonds, so that the
restrictions now placed upon our manu
facturers which prevents the exportation
of distilled sprirlts In bottles and cases in
bond may be removed, thereby largely
Increasing our export trade to all parts
of the world, particularly In Central and
South America and Mexico, and affording
our manufacturers opportunity for suc
cessfully competing with foreign compet
itors, particularly Canadian distillers,
who now enjoy this privilege to the detri
ment of home producers.” - '
STILL FALLING AT NORFOLK.
Norfolk, Va„ Jan. 27.—It began snow
ing early this morning, and at H o’clock
tonight about four Inches Is on the
ground. The snow is 'still falling fast.
Street car traffic has been considerably
Impeded. It Is thought that considerable
damage will result to shipping oft the
coast.
THOUSANDS OF CATTLE DEAD.
Dennison, Tea.. Jan. 27.—Prominent
stockmen of the Indian Territory and the ,
Panhandle report that the recant bustard
has resulted fa the death of, thousands
of cattle on the range. For the first time
In a number of years large water .courses
are frozen over. ,,• - • fS f '
I ^
BIRMINGHAM HERALD.
_ - ’A_; : ... —1.- __
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 1897. NUMBER 10
TENDERED AND ACCEPTED
Lyman J. Gage Gets the Treas
ury Folio.
_ I
HIS VISIT TO CANTON
Proved Satisfactory and He Announces the Re
suit As an Acceptance.
VIEWS ON ^FINANCIAL QUESTIONS OF
>
McKinley aajd the Elect Are of a Parity.
New York Bankers Raise a Howl
Against the Appointment
of Gage.
Canton, O., Jan. 28.—Lyman J. Gage,
who will be the next secretary of the
treasury, arrived at Maj. McKinley's
house A few. pilnutss before 3 o’clock thlB
afternoon. He was warmly welcomed
by the President-elect, who straightway
withdrew wtth him for a private confer
ence, which lasted until 6 o’clock. The
President-elect and his secretary of the
treasury had a full and very satisfactory
talk, in which they discussed at length
the financial and tariff policies of the
next administration and considered the
problems that would call for immediate
solution by means of legislation.
The President-elect and Mr. Gage are
in thorough accord upon all financial,
political and economic policies. The de
mand for Mr. Gage's appointment came
from nearly every commercial center of
the country, and from men of both par
ties. He Is Indorsed not only by the busi
ness world, but by many labor organiza
tions as well. The direct claim Is made
In nearly all of the mass of letters and
telegrams which have reached Maj. Mc
Kinley respecting Mr. Gage that the di
rect effect of his appointment will be
to hasten and render certain the restora
tion of confidence. Maj. McKinley has
been thinking about Mr. Gage for sev
eral weeks in connection with the treas
ury portfolio, but had been led to believe
that he could not accept It. It has also
been Maj. McKinley's intention from the
day he was elected to choose a western
man for secretary of the treasury, tf he
could find an available man. -Mr. Gage
meets all of the requirements, but his
appointment does not remove from the
list of cabinet possibilities the name of
Charles Emory Smith, who would in all
probability have been made secretary
of 6tate if the office had been filled by
the appointment of an eastern man.
it may De safety assumea mat maj.
McKinley has decided at present upon
six meh for his cabinet, though he has
not formally tendered all of them port
folios. The men who are regarded as
certain of appointment are: John Sher
man, Lyman J. Gage, Nathan GofT, Jo
seph McKenna, John D. Long and James
Wilson, of Iowa, for secretary of agri
culture. Gen. R. A. Alger’s appointment
as secretary of war is probable, but by
no means certain. The one remaining
portfolio, which is not likely to be ten
dered before the middle or last of Feb
ruary, will doubtless go to a New Yorker
or Pennsylvanian.
Mr. Gage said this evening, and author
ized the United Associated Presses to say:
"I have been tendered the appointment
of secretary of the treasury by Maj. Mc
Kinley, and have acecpted it.”
Among Maj. McKinley’s callers today
were four colored bishops—B. W. Arnett,
Ohio; W. J. Gaines, Atlanta; Joseph
Handy, of Baltimore, J. W. Derrick, of
New York.
NEW YORK BANKERS
Raise a Howl Against Gage as Secretary
of the Treasury.
New York, Jan. 28.—Within the past
two or three days there has developed
In New York banking circles quite an
opposition to the movement to make Ly
man J. Gage, the next secretary of the
treasury. During the 1893 panic Mr.
Gage, as president of the First National
Bank of Chicago, sent a circular letter
to banks generally throughout the west
In which he criticised the operations of
the New York bankers. The latter were
very much displeased with the utter
ances of Mr. Gage, as set" forth in his
letter, and several of the leading bankers
here expressed their eoftlnlon of Mr.
Gage In no uncertain words. Although
three years have passed, the New York
ers have not forgotten nor. forgiven the
Chicago banker for his scoring of them,
and nbw they propose to even up and
are taking quite effective steps to oppose
his appointment.
Mr. Gage’s circular letter was written
In August, 1893. In It he reviews the ac
tion of the New York banks In Issuing
clearing house certificates which he de
clares Operates against western banks,
as money In New York commanded a
premium over bank certificates of 1%
to 2 per cent. He therefore advises cor
respondents that Chicago banks cannot
take drafts on New York and eastern
points and credit them at par.
The letter concludes as follows:
If Chicago and the west are to be
kept on a cash basis, eastern exchange
must, as has been above shown, be sub
jected to a discount approximating the
premium on currency In New York, in
order to prevent the movement of cur
rency thither to coipmand the premium
thereon offered for it.
Bankers should take these facts Into
account when dealing with their cus
tomers and their Chicago correspondents,
and be willing to buy and sell eastern
exchange at its actual money value.
STILL BEING PERSECUTED.
Dauntless and Three Friends Free Yet
Being Hampered by.Officers.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 28.—Now that
the steamers Three Friends arid Daunt
less are at liberty their owners are be
ginning to experience Just as much
trouble as formerly in going in and out
of the river cm legitimate towing and
wrecking trips.
The vessels do not have to clear at the
custom house for ordinary coastwise
trips, or to engage In the wrecking busi
ness, but still the officers In command of
the cruiser Newark and the dispatch
boat Dolphin will not allow the Three
Friends or Dauntless to go out of sight of
the St. John’s bar unless speclnl permis
sion is received from tYashlngton.
The captains and owners of both steam
ers made a request of the collector of cus
toms this morning for permission to go on
wrecking and towing business along the
coast. The collector Informed them that
he had nothing to do with the matter, as
the boats could go where they pleased,
except to a foreign port or Into foreign ,
waters, without having to obtain a. clear
ance. The owners of the vessels wished
the collector to instruct the commanders
of the warships to allow them to cross the
bar and go to sea. This the collector re
fused to do, as the commanders of the
warships receive their instructions from
the department officials at Washington.
As the matter how stands neither ves
sel has gained much by being released
from custody, for they are still guarded
by the revenue cutters and the warships
off the St. John's bar. The owners are
becoming tired of this interference with
the movements of their vessels and the
next move will be an application for an
injunction to restrain the officers of the
warships and revenue cutters from inter
fering with the movements of the Three
Friends and Daun tless.
DECLARED A DRAW.
Dick Burge and Eddie Connolly Put Up
a Hot Fight For Nine Rounds.
Birmingham, Eng., Jan. 28.—The match
between Dick Burge and Eddie Connol
ly, formerly of St. John, N. B., and later
of Boston,'for 1,000 pound* sterling aside,
took place before the Olympic Sporting
club here tonight and resulted In a draw.
The men were matched to fight twenty
rounds at 144 pounds. At the end of the
tenth round both men were too weak to
fight longer, and the referee declared ihe
fight a draw. Burge fought at 143 and
Connolly at 138 pounds. During the af
ternoon Burge was a strong favorite In
the betting, the odds on lilm being 2 to
1.
Goode, Hyams, Cook and Howe were in
Burge's corner, and Kelly, Rose, Brierly
and Foley acted as seconds for Connolly.
The fighting was very fierce from the
start. Connolly led the fighting at a
tremendous pace, but he was stopped re
peatedly by blows on the face. After five
rounds in which the exchanges were
about even, Burge landed a crushing
blow on Connolly’s neck, knocking him
down. The latter, however, was on his
feet again in eight seconds and Burge
was just going in to finish the fight wheni
the time was called. Connolly recovered
with marvelous rapidity from the effects
of the blow which had come so near
knocking him out, and in the next round
he landed several blows which made
Burge groggy.
The spectators were wild with excite
ment when they saw the favorite in this
condition. At the end of the ninth round
both men were terribly weak, but both
were game.
In the middle of the tenth, the manage
ment declined to allow the fight to pro
ceed further, and the referee therefore
stopped the men and declared the battle
a draw.
WAS HE DROWNED?
Peculiar Disappearance of a Young Man
Who Was a Passenger on the Seminole.
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan, 28.—Harry Jen
nings, son of Mrs. E. Haussman, of/his
city, is missing, and his disappearance Is
shrouded In the greatest mystery.
He left New York for Jacksonville on
the steamship Seminole last Friday, and
was accompanied to the ship in New
York by his older brother, but since that
time nothing hoe been heard of him.
Capt. and Mrs. Haussman were at the
ship to meet the lad upon its arrival
Tuesday morning, but they failed to find
him.
Capt. and Mrs. Haussman then began
to make Inquiries on the ship and at the
Clyde passenger office. Col. F. M. Iron
monger, Jr., the Florida passenger agent,
Immediately interested himself in the
case, and upon Inquiry learned from
Purser Coburger that young Jennings’
ticket had been taken up and checked
off on the passenger list.
The tickets are taken up while the
ship Is going down New York harbor,
somewhere between the narrows and
Sandy Hook; so it was evident that young
Jennings was on the ship at that time.
Col. Ironmonger next telegraphed to
Charleston, notifying the agent of the
line at that point of the disappearance
of the lad and requesting him to notify
the police and commence a search for the
boy, It being thought he might have gone
a3hore at Charleston and got left. Col.
Ironmonger received a letter from Mr.
Edgerton, the Charleston agent, stating
that he was giving the matter his closest
attention and had the police authorities
working on the case, but as yet nothin*
had been heard of young Jennings. w
It may have been that the young man
was swept overboard last Saturday night,
when the steamer experienced a heavy
gale; but this Is almost improbable, as
the blow was not seven? enough to blow
the young man off his feet.
KNOXVILLE HAS A PANIC.
Of Failures of Building and Loan Associ
ations—Only Two Left.
Knoxville, Tenn., Jan. 28.—A receiver
was appointed today for the Covenant
Building and Loan association of this
city, making the seventh one to go under
during the last ten days. Of the nine
Building and Loan associations doing
business in this city, there are now only
two and they are doomed to go within
the next few days.
The panic in building and loan associa
tions ir. this city was caused by a deci
sion of the supreme court which provided
that where a borrower forfeited his prop
erty, that the association must pay him
back such amount as he had paid in. Fol
lowing this, hundreds of suits were at
Once begun and then the people who had
money invested began to withdraw it.
Applications for withdrawal came so fast
that money could not be obtained to pay
off one-third of -them. Public sentiment
was bitterly opposed to the associations
and the result was that they went into
Receiver's hands and the seven will be
•wound Up.
The Southern, which was the second
one to fall, is the largest in the world,
and had stockholders in every northern,
eastern and southern state and many In
the west. In. nearly every instance, the
associations were in a perfectly solvent
condition when the receiver was ap
pointed.
IDAHO’S NEW SENATOR.
To Succeed DiiBois Is a German of Limit
ed Education and a Farmer.
Boise. Idaho, Jan 28.—The senatorial
contest in the Idaho state legislature ter
minated today by the election of Henry
Heitfelt, a populist, to succeed Senator
DubQis. The ballot was as follows:
Heitfelt 39; Dubois, silver republican, 30;
T. F. Nelson, populist, 1.
Twenty-five populists, thirteen demo
crats and one republican voted . for the
successful candidate.
Heitfelt is a German by birth, with
a limited command of the English lan
guage. He is 40 years of age and is a
farmer In Nez Perces county. He has
several times represented his county In
the state legislature, and Is at present a
member of the state senate, but has nev
er been known to make a spec -)»■ * e
has only a rudimentary education and is
of course a free silver man.
THREE STORES BURNED.
Ottawa, Ont., Jan. 28.—The village of
Gatttneau Point, situated Across the river
from this city, was visited last ntgTTt by
a fire, which destroyed the three princi
. pa) stores of the ptaoe.,Loss, |60,000; part
ly Insured.
TWO REPORTERS DROWNED
While Following in the Wake of
the Congressmen
IN THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
On the Tour of Inspection to the Jetties Below
New Orleans.
THE YACHT ON WHICH THEY WERE
Came in Collission With a Norwegian
Steamship and the Port'r Went
Down Carrying the Pencil
Shovers With It.
New Orleans, Jan, 28.—The Norwegian
steamship, Albert Dumols, and the steam
yacht, Argo, collided in mid-river, near
Port Eads, this morning, at 12:38 o’clock,
and two reporters, members of the Pica
yune staff, were probably drowned, as
nothing was seen of them after the rest
of the party on the Argo crawled Into a
little boat from the Sinking yacht. The
Dumols laid by and searched for the
missing men. Nine persons, including
the crew, were aboard the Argo.
When the visit of the congressional del
egation, who are now at the Jetties, was
first broached, a committee was appoint
ed by the Jetty conference to arrange for
the entertainment of the visitors. The
very first thing the committee did was to
secure a vessel to convey the delegation
down to the Jetties to take a look at the
crevasse, which was the occasion of the
congressional visit. President Hutchi
son and Mr. Schilever, of the Southern
Pacific railroad, came to the rescue of
the committee and placed at Its disposal
the splendid steamship Whitney. The
AVhttney is a passenger carrier, and In
her cabin there are some thirty-odd state
rooms. At the time nothing was said
about the press accompanying the dele
gation on the trip, for it was accepted as
a matter pf course that representatives
of the various papers would be taken
along, a custom which has always pre
vailed in this city whenever any move
ment of Importance is on foot.
But subsequent developments caused
a hitch In the arrangements of the com
mittee. L/ast Sunday word was received
that the congressional party, including
the ladles who were along, would consist
of twenty-eight persons all told. There
Is where the hitch came. With accom
modatlons ror only tmriy people, me lo
cal committee were at their wits’ ends to
arrange matters so that the entire con
gressional party and the local committee
of eight, who were delegated to go along,
could be accommodated on the trip.
At a meeting held Monday, it was de
cided that under,, the existing circum
stances the representatives of the press
would have to be excluded. When this
information was broached to the papers,
it created something.of a commotion, for
such a thing had never been heard of be
fore. The Picayune especially took ex
ception to the action of the committee,
and in a leading editorial expressed Its
feelings In the matter- in plain words.
The Picayune, In Its article, said that
the movement was of too great a pub
lic nature to excite the press. However,
It went ort to say that the trip would be
fullv reported by the Picayune, leaving
the impression that the paper would send
Its men to the Jetties, and have them on
hand when the Inspection of the crevasse
was made. This Is how the Argo came to
be In the. middle,of the Mississippi this
morning when the -Dumois was on her
way up the river. However, had the
Picayune learned in time that the local
committee, at the last moment, had
changed their plans and decided to have
the press along, the Argo might have not
gone down the river, Yesterday it was
announced that the ladles of the con
gressional party would not make the
journey, and the result was that the
representatives of the press were Invited
to make the trip. This Information came
too late for the Picayune, for the Argo
had been chartered and every arrange
ment made for three of Us reporters to
take the trip, arid such being the case,
the management decided that they had
better send the Argo anyhow.
The Argo left Algiers some hours after
the Whitney departed with the congres
sional party aboard.
At 11 oclock an on board tne Argo, ex
cept Captain Brown. In command, and
the engineer, went to bed. The crash
when the Argo and the Dumois struck
awoke everybody and they clambored on
deck in their underclothing to find their
craft with hep bow stove In and fast
sinking. The one little boat the yacht
carried would barely hold the party, but
they crowded In and cast off. The wind
was high and considerable difficulty was
experienced In gettlnif to the Dumois,
as the overloaded boat was unmanagea
ble.
The names of the missing reporters are:
H. B. Blesstne and Harrison Hester. The
latter is a son of Secretary Hester, of the
cotton exchange. It Is believed he was
asleep In the cabin of the yacht, the
shock not awakening him, and he went
down with the vessel.
The collision is unexplained. It oc
curred at a point where the river Is nar
row and a strong current puns, and Capt.
Brown, of the yacht, probably lost his
head at a critical monte tit.
•MET A SERIOUS DOSS.
Insurgents Attack a Deploying Column,
and, After a Brava Fight, Repulsed.
Havana, Jan. 28.—Col. Zktbalza is with
his column in San'Jose de Las Lajas, In
the province of Havana, ior the purpose
of making a reconnoissance. In the
Chavez hills the ooluihfi met the com
bined rebel parties of Castillo and ether
leaders, who received the troops with a
heavy fire of musketry. The rebels then
deployed, and the positions they took
cut oft the retreat (tf .tbe troops.
Col. Zabalsa ordered a cavalry charge,
which the rebels resented with remarka
ble strength, but they w?ne finally driven
away, leaving on the field thirty-nine of
their dead, all-of whom had been killed
by the macheteB of the cavalry. The
troops had six njen woundgd.
Capt.-Cen. weyler, according to the
last reports of his movements, is at Cai
mltal, near the Hanabana river, on the
border of the Mantanzas and Santa Clara
province*. - . . U<)
1-- " -+*
THE Bl^ttflr FATAL
Savannah, Ga., Jan, 28.—At Blackshear,
this morning, Deputy'Sheriff Alexander
Bullard dealt a negro named Luke Hill
two terrific blows on the head with a
rifle while Sill was resisting arrest with
an open knife in his hand. The negro’s
skull was fractured and he has since
died. He wm wanted for.killing a neigh
bor’s ,cow. £ "' g
£ > ■ , ^ 3
J - W ' ; - ’#
FORECLOSURE PBOCEEDiNGS
Against the Union Pacific Des
tined to Be Blocked
BY ALLEN’S RESOLUTION
Instructing the Senate Committee to Inquire
Into and Report Authority.
BLOCTON’S POSTMASTER CONFIRMED
<J. O. Collier the Man—Benate Executive
Session—Altgeld’s Name Figures
Prominently in the House—
Morton Gels a Basting.
Washington, Jan, 28.—The proposed
gale of the property of the Union Pacific
railroad under foreclosure proceedings
instituted by the attorney general, Is
sought to be impeded and prevented by
a resolution offered in the senate today
by Mr. Allen, the populist senator from
Nebraska. It Instructs the Pacific rail
road committee to Inquire and report
whether under existing law the executive
department has the authority to fore
close the lien anS to sell the property
without additional legislation and wheth
er It Is not the duty of the president to
redeem and pay off the paramount liens
and take possesion of the property; and
It directs the attorney general to refrain
from entering Into further stipulations
or agreements pending the Inquiry. In
a speech In support of the resolution Mr.
Allen Insisted that under existing law It
was the duty of the president not to di
rect foreclosure, but to pay oft all para
mount liens and take possesion of the
property. To an Inquiry by Mr. Platt,
(rep. of Connecticut), whether the reme
dies provided in the statute were cumula
tive or were alternative, Mr. Allen re
plied that the language was such as to
shut out the Idea of the remedies be
ing‘alternative. He also declared that
the price named in the agreement with
the re-organizatlon committee was not
equal to 35 per cent, of the value of the
property. The resolution went over with
out action, Mr. Thurston, (rep. of Ne
braska), stating his desire to speak upon
it tomorrow.
The bill for a commission to an In
ternational monetary conference was
taken up and Mr, Chandler, (rep. of New
Hampshire) made a short statement
In favor of It. He said that It did not
compel the president to Initiate the con
ference and that such compulsion was
not desirable. He had no desire to take
Trom the preBldent-elect his responsibili
ty for action or no-actlon In view of Mr.
McKinley’s letter of acceptance stating
that the republican party had declared In
favor of an International agreement and
thcjt It would be his dyty if elected to
1 employ all, proper means to promote It.
Ht subsequently, however, accepted an
a» endroent offered by Mr. Bacon, (dem.
of Georgia), giving the president authori
ty specifically to call an international
conference at such point as may be
agreed upon. All the rest of the time
that was left of the morning hour, to
Which the consideration of the bill was
limited, was occunpied by Mr. Stewart,
(pop. of Nevada), In a speech recount
ing the lUe inflicted upon the poor by the
gold standard, but declaring In the end
that he would allow the bill to pass In
any form that its friends desired.
Notice of a desire to speak on the
measure was given by Mr. Pettigrew,
(sllverlte of South Dakota), and then t'he
bill went over, Mr. Chandler stating that
he would ask the senate to vote on It to^
morrow.
The senate then went Into executive
session and remained in It until 4:30
o’clock when legislative business was
resumed. Several bills were taken from
the calendar and passed and at 5:16 the
senate adjourned until tomorrow.
1 IN THE HOUSE.
Several Interesting, and at times, hu
morous and acrlmoniouspollticalspeeches
wepe unexpectedly precipitated upon the
houjse today just at the close of an other
wise dull session, during which the con
sideration. of the Indian appropriation
t>ll« began on Monday last, was conclud
ed, and the bill passed, with some mate
rial changes, all reducing the scope of
thet measure. Mr. Wadsworth (rep. N.
Y.), chairman of the committee on agri
culture, had called up the bill making
appropriations for thet agricultural de
partment for the year 1897-98, and fol
lowing Mr. Sherman’s course In the man
agement of the Indian bill, yielded the
floor to Mr. Grosvenor (rep. O.). That
gentleman used the opportunities thus
accorded him to defend the state of Ohio
fropi what he termed the false charges
of ex-Gov. Altgeld, made in the latter’s
speech at the banquet given him last
week to mark the close of his guberna
torial term. These related to the great
increase in the votes of several states, at
the November election, Ohio being one
,wh|ch Altgeld said was largely fraudu
lent and which had defrauded Bryan of
a (victory which he had fairly worn
Mri Grosvenor said the increase was in
hot* the republican' and democratic votes
and had no taint of fraud in it.
Mr. Grosvenor was followed in the same
line by other republicans, and then Mr.
Dearmond (dem. Mo.) took the floor.
■After briefly adverting to ex-Gov. Alt
geld’s charges, he read from newspaper :
publications Whortiy after the election. ;
to |how that there was some ground for
thein, so for as Ohio was concerned. He
intimated that Altgeld would soon have
the privilege of replying to the speeches
of the Athenian representative (Grosve
nor) on the floor. He turned his atten
tion to Secretary Morton, using as a basis
for his remarks the recent bulletin issued
by the agricultural department, showing
the illiteracy and poverty of the states
which voted for Bryan, as compared with
those of the McKinley states, and de
nounced it as a slander upon the men
whqrn the department of agriculture
was supposed to particularly Tepresent.
He appealed to the republicans to find a
place for the secretary in the museum as
a (Cariosity of modern political life and
administration. In conclusion he par
odied Gray’s lines:
"Fall many a whim of purest ray serene,
The dark, unfathomed dreams qf Morton
■ bear;
Full many a wheel formed to whir unseen,
And waste Its fleetness 'neath J. Sterling’s
hair."
This being ended, the committee rose,
and at 6:10 o’clock the house adjourned.
During the day Mr. Grout (rep. Vt.)
reported the appropriation bill for the
DUrtrict of Columbia; Mr. Thomas (rep.
1 Mich.) gave notice that on Wednesday
next he would ask the house to consider
the report of elections committee No. 8 on
the contest of Cornell vs. Swanson, from
the Fifth Virginia district, and Mr, Pow
ers (rep. Vt.) presented the report of the
conference on the, 4NU1 to enable pur-'
chases of the Atlantic and Pacific rail
road to form a corporation.
EXECUTIVE SESSION.
Washington, Jan. 28.—For more than
an hour the senate this afternoon discuss
ed in executive session the nomination of
William S. Forman, of Illinois, to be
commissioner of Internal revenue, and
finally confirmed him by a vote of 41 to
15. The opposition was based almost
entirely upon Mr. Forman's conduct in
the recent campaign. Senator Jones,
chairman of the national democratic
committee, said he opposed the candi
dacy of Mr. Foreman with much reluc
tance, but he could not permit his at
tacks upon the regular ticket of the
democratic party to pass unheeded, es
pecially as they were brought to the at
tention of the country by the appoint
ment to such an important position of the
man who had made them. Remarks
along similar lines were made by Sena
tors Berry and Stewart. Mr. Chandler
antagonized the nomination because the
nominee was a democrat who stood' on a
platform-declaring for the single gold
standard and free trade.
Mr. Forman was defended fey Senators
Cullom and Hale, (reps.,) and Messrs.
Mills and Palmer, (dems.,) all* of whom
spoke of his high character as a man and
his eminent fitness for the place. They
argued that the vacancy came about
in. the ordinary course, and no violence
had been done any man or any party in
placing Mr. Forman in office. The roll
call showed that silver democrats, the
silver bolting republicans and the soli
tary vote of Mr. Chandler formed the
voting opposition.
Other nominations were confirmed by
the senate as follows:
Charles B. Howry, of Mississippi, judge
of the court of claims.
Frank D. Chester, of Massachusetts,
United States consul at Buda Pest, Hun
gary.
Postmasters—Alabama—C. C. Collier,
Blocton.
Louisiana—F. M. Munford. St. Fran
cisville; Miss Sebelle Knox, Clinton.; Mrs.
Jennie Curtis, Thibodeaux.
A CINCINNATI BLAZE.
Originated in a Malt House and Consum
ed an Entire Business Block.
Cincinnati, Jan. 28.—The bloclc bound
ed by Race, Commerce, Vine and Second
streets was Hie scene of a destructive
Are at 2 o’clock this morning. The blaze
originated in the engine room of the Her
man Goepper & Co., malt house on Com
merce street, and spread rapidly to the
cordage establishment of Overman &
Schroeder, and the commission houses
of W. W. Blair & Co., and Mellen, Brown
& Co. These buildings were completelv
destroyed, entailing a loss of *200,000.
The buildings adjoining were damaged by
water only and was occupied by the fol
lowing Arms:
The Furniture Warehouse company. J.
Staun & Co., doVers in tobacco; the Cin
cinnati Transf/ company. C. H. Rein
hardt & Co., confectioners; John H
Pointers, baker, and the Kerr Grocery
company.
The losses are fully covered by insur
ance.
DERVISHES PREPARE FOR WAR.
Cairo, Jan. 28.—Advices received here
from Don go la show that the Khalifa Ab
dullah El Taaslii, the leader of the Der
vish hordes, is making preparations for
the expected advance of the Anglo-Egyp
tian expedition against him. The greater
part of tihe garrison at Berber, an import
ant town on the Nile, south of DongoJa,
have been taken to reinforce the Der
vishes at Khartoum, at the Junction of
the Blue and WhRe Niles, and at Omdur
man, directly opposite Khartoum. The
women, children and old men at the two
latter places are being sent to El Obeid,
In Kordofan, the chief city of the Der
vishes, and there are other Indications
that the Khalfl.a intends to attempt to
hold the expedition in check at Khartoum.
The Dervishes at Abou Homed, a town
on the Nile between Dnngoia and Ber
ber, have deserted and the expedition
therefore does not expect to meet with
any opposition until it advances for some
distance past the mouth of the Black
Nile, unless the KhalAa later reinforces
the above garrison.
DAN STEWART TALKS.
Says He Will Pull Off the Corbett-FItz
slmmons Fight on Schedule Time.
Dallas, Tex., Jag. 28.—Mr. Stuart said:
"I am gratified at the liberal spirit shown
toward athletic sports by the legislature
and Governor of Nevada.
"It had not originally been my inten
tion to have Corbett and Fitzsimmons
meet in that state after signing them for
a second time, but things have shaped
themselves so that Nevada is the most
desirable location in sight. I shall start
for that state within the next four or five
days and devote my time to the details of
making the battle a success as a high
class sporting event. I shall try to get
one more first-class attraction for the
17tli of March and prefer that Peter
Maher be one of the principals. He Is a
top-uotcher in the first flight of boxers
and a strong public favorite. I shall en
trust the making of this match to A1
Smith. He has lines on nil the men of
the oountry worthy of consideration. A
meeting of railroad men will be held at
San Francisco tomorrow to arrange the
transportation end of the programme. I
am satisfied they will attend to the public
who will want to visit Nevada in March
in a clever and liberal manner. In the
eelectiori ofthe town where the fistic car
nival will take place I shall be governed
by the public’s convenience and my best
business interests.”
DEATH S RECORD.
halcy t. blocker.
Tallahassee, Fla., Jan. 28.—Capt. Haley
T. Blocker, aged 79 years, died at his res
idence in Tallahassee, Wednesday, after
a short Illness. He was, born in Edge
field district, South Carolina, April 2,
1818, and moved to Florida about the year
1889, and was at his death perhaps one
of the oldest residents of Leon county,
having resided In this county nearly eixty
years. Capt. Blocker was a captain In
the Seminole war, was a major-general
In the old state militia, was a captain in
the confederate army and served through
out the late war under Gen. Dicktson.
SOUTH CAROLINA ECHOES.
Zero and Below With Promise of Colder
Weather on the Morrow.
Columbia, S. C., Jan. 28.—Specials to
the State report the temperature at Eas
ley zero, Pickens 2 below, Marietta 4 be
low. They are In the Piedmont section.
At Greenville it was 0 above, Columbia
13. It will be colder tonight.
NOW ON WITH THE GLOVES.
Carson, Nev., Jan. 28.—The senate to
day passed the bill licensing glove con
tests by a vote of 9 to 6. The bill passed
the assembly on Monday last. The gen
eral opinion Is that the Governor will
sign the bill.
DEADLOCK CONTIUES.
Olympia, Wash., Jan. 28.—The sena
torial deadlock continues. Three more
ballots were taken today without result.
The twenty-fourth ballot was as fol
lows: Wlneor, 42; Turner, 35; Denny, 26;
Squire, 4; Cline, 2.
INJUNCTION PAPERS SERVED
On Escambia County, Fla., Board
of Health
<•
AND A SHU TO FOLLOW
§
By ihe Capta.^r f the British Ship Lord Wool
ey for Damages.
£ _
PENSACQ CITIZENS ARE IRDIGNANT
f i
] I -
At the ol the Doard Enforcing the
Ehi Go to Quarantlno When in
Good Condition — Loading
With Alabama Iron.
Pensacola, Fla., Jan. 28.—(Special.)— *
Injunction papers were served this eve
ning upon the Escambia county board of
health,‘Consisting of B. R. Pitt, president,
Alexander Grant, secretary; F. G. Ren
shaw, member, and Dr. R. C. White, port
inspectSl", enjoining them from, receiv
ing pay for granting the British ship
Lord Woolseley the privilege of unload
ing the rock ballast in mid-stream, un
less the captain paid to them the sum of
25 cents per ton, and Donald McVlcker,
master of the ship, was given to under
stand that the Lord Woolseley would not
be released from quarantine unlegs he
gave a draft upon the agents of the
ship in Pensacola, F. O. Howe & Co.,
for the amount of J290, payable to the
Escambia county board of health, al
though they nor any of their employes
had anything to do with the unloading
of this ballast and were at no expense
for handling the same.
The captain was not willing to have
the ship detained at quarantine, and be
ing at the mercy of the board of health,
gave the draft and was allowed to come
up to Pensacola, where she now lays
and as the draft had not been paid, Hon.
J. J. "Sullivan, solicitor for the complain
ant, Capt. McVicker, enjoined the board
of health from collecting this Illegal bill.
The ship Lord Woolseley arrived in the
harbor of Pensacola Jan. 7, 1897. The
port inspector, R. C. White, boarded her
and remarked to her commander that
she was in splendid sanitary condition.
Notwithstanding this, the board or health
issued an order for her to go to quar
antine and while there these impositions
were put upon her.
She is now loading with a cargo of pig
Iron from Birmingham, and chartered
to Yokohama, Japan.
The citizens of Pensacola all oondemm
the high-handed action, of this board of
health. The captain will Institute at
once suit for damages, also.
fell¥we¥ty-five feet.
A Brooklyn Elevated Engine and One
Car Plunge to the Ground-—
Passengers Injured.
Brooklyn, N. Y., Jan. 28.—The Ice and
snow, with an open switch, were the
cause of an engine and one car of the
Brooklyn elevated railroad to leave the
structure at Fulton and Bradford streets
tonight, falling to the ground, a distance
of twenty-five feet. Several persons
were Injured, as well as the car and en
gine being demolished. Two persons, It
Is said, will die. The Injured are:
THOMAS CAFFNEY, engineer of en
gine No. 74, living at 653 Chauncey street;
skull fractured and other injuries to the
body.
GEORGE THOMAS, of Canarise, fire
man of the same engine; scalded on face
and limbs by escaping steam; both take™
to St. Mary’s hospital.
ALBERT BROWN, engineer of engine
No. 67; several wounds to the scalp.
THOMAS HEATH, of No. 341 New Jer
sey avenue, fireman with Brown, left leg
amputated.
HENRY SEBERS, of No. 184 Cleveland
street; sprain of left leg.
J. HANBURY, of Railroad and New
Jersey avenues, Jersey City; fracture of
spine. m
ANDREW GORGANS, of No. 8 Mon
tauk avenue, contusion of hips and legs.
HENRY HINKE, ol Railroad avenue,
near Jamaica; scalp wounds.
Heath and Caffney will die. The lat
ter was In charge of engine No. 74 oif the
Lexington avenue branch that left the
Brooklyn bridge at 6:15 o'clock and was
on its way to Cypress Hill cemetery.
Four cars made up the train, but only a
few passengers were In them. At the
junction of Bradford and Fulton streets,
as Gaffney was about to slow up, engine
No. 67 drawing a train of empty cars
in charge of Albert Brown, loomed up
and striking an open switch headed di
rectly In Gaffney's course. No time was
given to reverse the levers. The engines
came together with u crash and a second
later engine 74 toppled over, leaving the
rails and dragging the first car with It
to the street. The breaking of the coup
ling on the second car prevented the
three other coaches from leaving the
rails. As It was, the front wheels of the
second car were dragged from the tracks,
becoming settled In the ties, remaining
there, preventing the cars In the rear
from following the engine's descent to
the street
ON FRYrNG PAN SHOALS.
Wilmington, N. C., Jan. 28.—The tugs
Jones and Blanche went to the British
steamer Adrlchalg, stranded on Frying
Pan shoals, this morning, but the tide
was not high enough to get the vessel
off. This afternoon thirty hands went
to lighten, the steamer of cargo, and tugs
will pull on her tonight at high tide. The
steamer Is reported to be lying easy
and in good condition, with the sea mod
erate.
LEAVE FOR TEXAS TODAY.
New Orleans, Jan. 28.—The congress
ional party on the Whitney arrived at
the quarantine station last night about
11 o'clock and anchored In the mouth of
the river until morning. Today they In
spected the Jetties and the passes, and
will return to the olty tonight. They will '
remain over tomorrow (Friday) and leave
for Texas In the evening.
IT IS JUDGE CALHOUN.
Jackeon, Miss., Jan. 28.—Judge S. 8. *
Calhoun was today appointed to the su
preme court bench for the balance of this
term, Chief Justloe Woods being still
very sick. Judge Woods wa$ married *>
loot Tuesdav. ii'Jx.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 • BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 30, 1897. NUMBER 11
MONTH OF DISAPPOINTMENT
January Fails to Come Up to
Expectations.
ALL CLASSES OF GOODS
Show Decline, While Industries in Certain
Lines Resume Operations.
THE ENORMOUS CROP OF CORN
Bids Fair to Drive the Price of Wheat Stil
Bower—Iron and Steel Show on In
crease of Production — Fail
. urea for the Week.
I
New York, Jan. 29.—R. G. Dun & Co.
will say tomorrow in their weekly re
view of trade: Jatiauary has been a
month of disappointment, but of real
gain. Nearly everybody had promised
himself a land of milk and honey after
New Years, and the slow progress looks
like standing still to men in such a stane
of mind. Moreover, there are multitudes
throughout the country who have been
taking large ventures in advance of or
apart from their regular business, be
cause they expect a rise in prices. But
prices fall as yet to bring them a profit.
Wheat has declined severely, cotton has
scarcely risen enough to pay brokerage,
wools hold steady in spite of enormous
buyers, woolen goods hardly change in
price, iron and its products decline, leath
er 1b sluggish, hides are lower, for some
shoe manufacturers accept a shade lower
prices, the average of railroad stocks is
slightly lower than it was December 31,
and the advance in trust stocks has been
small. To tradeis in such properties the
month has been disappointing. Yet dur
ing the week the record shows that ten
iron works have started and only two
have stopped; thirteen woolen works
have started and nine more are about
ready to start, while three have stopped.
Similar things are seen in other indus
tries, and the additional establishments
are not starting without! some increase in
orders received. It would do more harm
than good to exaggerate the improve
ment. But a study of conditions govern
ing business indicates that the wheels
are on the right track and moving in the
_ right direction. Men talked of a possible
drain of gold a month ago, but January
has passed, and the liquidation of foreign
indebtedness to this country seems far
ther off than ever. Merchandise exports
from New York in January have been
about 4 per cent, larger than last year,
and- imports 16 per cent, smaller than
last year, when t'he excess of exports was
over $18,000,000, while cotton exports from
other parts have also been larger. The
month has not diminished, but has in
creased the current balance due this
country. Money markets become more
easy and favorable to expansion of in
dustries and legitimate business.
The decline in wheat was over 6 cents
In spite of an official report of a yield far
below estimates generally accepted, re
flects perception of the error of the re
port and also of the influence of enormous
exports of corn instead of wheat, eighty
million bushels in seven months. When
two bushels of corn can be had for less
than one bushel of wheat, it is largely
preferred in European markets and up to
January 7,859,127 bushels of corn have
gone abroad from Atlantic ports against
6,306,349 last year, while Atlantic exports
of wheat and flour have been 6,535,154
bushels, against 8,403,765 last year. As
the great crop of corn prevents much
advance in its price, its outgo affects the
demand for wheat and a heavy liquida
tion of speculation has occurred with the
price of corn scarcely changing. The
largest article of export at this season
goes out freely, but cotton looks less at
tractive to traders, because American
millers are laboring over a plan to reduce
a great surplus of goods and prices of
many have declined. Takings of north
ern spinners have been in five months 44,
000 bales less than last year, and 423,000
less than in 1894-95.
Sales of wool in January have never
been surpassed In that mo-nth, nor in any
other month, except last November and
July of 1895 and 1892. The price has re
mained about steady.
The iron and steel manufactures show
little gains, production having Increased
so heavily before and the gradual enlarge
ment of demand for finished products
has not overtaken that increase. Lower
prices result for Bessemer pig, grey forge
and for southern iron at Chicago: for cut
nails and the average of all quotations Ib
the lowest since early last year. For
sheets there is active demand, and better
also for bars on account of much car
building.
Failures for the week have been 331 in
the United States, against 404 last year,
and 67 in Canada, against 70 last year.
BRADSTREET’S REVIEW.
New York, Jan. 29.—Bradstreet’s to
morrow will say: There has been a fall
ing off In general trade owing to the
heavy fall of enow and cold weather.
There Is a moderate Increase In distri
bution of heavy winter goods, but com
mercial travelers very generally report
buyers are even more conservative than
early In the month and that wholesale
trading In January xcept In lines spe
cified, is smaller than for years. Mer
cantile collections are interrupted and
the Improvement looked for In Iron and
steel Is not In sight.
The most favorable feature of the busi
ness week is the sudden and sharp fall
ing oft In the total number of business
failures in the United States, the aggre
gate being 326 as compared with 429 last
week, a decrease of 103. When com
pared with the corresponding week of
1896 this week's falling off is 67.
There have been Increased sales of
hides and leather, in some Instances of
shoes, coal, fertilizers and southern pig
Iron for export. At Boston, Charles
ton, Galveston and San Francisco there
are moderate gains In trade compared
with last week. The feature of the Pa
cific coast business situation continues to
be the relatively large proportion of for
eign trade. Eastern and middle state
iron and steel Industries are In an unsat
isfying condition, but southern furnaces
announce, nearly 12,000 tons of Iron sold
for export with Russia in the market
as a would-be buyer.
The heavy business in raw wool within
a fortnight continues and there Is still
an actlvq demand. Men's wear woolens,
heavy weights for next fall, are attract
ing attention and good orders have been
booked. Cotton goods continue depressed
notwithstanding efforts to relieve the sit
uation by reducing heavy stocks of prints
on hand.
Bank clearings at cities throughout the
United States show a sharp falling off
from last week, about 8 per cent., but an
Increase of 7 per cent, compared with teh
corresponding total one year ago. The
downward movement of prices for some,
of the more important staples continues
conspicuous, notably for flour, wheat,
oats, lard, coffee, petroleum, turpentine
and tin plate. Quotations for Indian
corn, pork, sugar, cotton and print cloths
are practically unchanged. Concessions
have been made in prices for iron and
steel, yet quotations are nominally un
changed.
WANTS A RECEIVER.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 29.—The application,
for a receiver for the Atlanta and West
Point Railroad company was taken up
today for hearing. The defendant com
pany and Its officers, the Georgia Rail
road company, the Central of Georgia and
some interveners, opposed the appoint
ment of a receiver. L. B. Nelson, the
stockholder who filed the suit for a re
ceiver, contends that the charter of the
Atlanta and West Point company expired
last December and that the new charter
which was obtained was Illegal. There
fore he holds that the company Is dead
and that Its affairs should be wound up
and its property sold and the proceeds
distributed among the stockholders. The
defense is that a good, legal charter was
obtained from the legislature before the
expiration of the old charter and that
the company Is not legally defunct. The
argument had only begun today when the
case was postponed until tomorrow.
REGENTS OF THE WHITE SHIKED.
Washington conclave No. 1 held an in
teresting meeting in their rendezvous
last night, at which time three recruits
were advanced to the Philanthropist de
gree and one mustered Into the Patriots’
degree. The conclave decided to celebrate
Washington's birthday in. an appropriate
manner, notice of which will be given
later. The conclave is growing in strength
and energy.
ONLY ONE LEFT.
Knoxville’s Building and Loan Associa
tions Gradually Disappearing
Like Snow.
Knoxville, Tenn., Jan. 29.—The only
building and loan association in this city
now which is not in the hands of a re
ceiver, is the People’s, and it is not pure
ly a building loan, but does a banking
business with the building and loan as a
side issue. Capt. A. Y. Burrows was to
day named as receiver for the Citizens’
Building and .Loan association—the Citi
zens’ association doing business in Ten
nessee, Kentucky and Virginia. The
cause given for the assignment was the
panic and failure to realize on real es
tate. The stockholders of the Knoxville
held a meeting today and agreed to have
the temporary receiver made permanent
and that he be instructed to close up the
affairs of the association at once. This
Is the oldest one in Knoxville, having
been organized in 1872.
A feature of the many failures which
has not been previously mentioned is that
the association owe to the city of Knox
ville over $8,000 taxes which must be paid
first of all.
The Government Building and Loan
association, Which asked for a receiver
yesterday has had W. A. Galbraith, depu
ty clerk and master of the chancery court
named. This association will wind up
its business at once.
PROSPECTS FLATTERING
For the Building of the Augusta and
Chattanooga Railroad.
Augusta, Ga., Jan. 29.—There Is pros
pect of the Augusta a»d Chattanooga
railway being built. The Chronicle to
morrow will publish a letter from J. C.
Stanton, of Ballstonspa, N. Y., who built
the Alabama Great Southern railway, in
which he says: "I have never known
such times to negotiate for a new' road.
The Augusta and Chattanooga railroad,
I think one of the most important rail
roads to be built at present, and it is of
no use to flatter the people that they
are going to get a railroad until you ne
gotiate for money to build It.
‘‘At last I have found a party who will
take the securities and furnish the money
to complete the enterprise. They are
to send their own man there to see if
the statements which I have made are
true. I have no fears but what we will
find it as I have stated. I am in hopes
he will be ready to go with me south
the latter part of this week. I will take
my engineer with me.”
The building of the Augusta and Chat
tanooga would be one of the greatest
things that could happen for Augusta
and to the state. It would open up mag
nificent territory to this city, put it in
closer touch with the great coal and
iron fields of Alabama and Tennessee and
make Augusta the gateway of the west
to the sea, saving the great agricultural
interests of the west thousands of miles
between their trade centers and foreign
countries.
HOPE THEY’LL FIND HIM.
Montgomery, Ala., Jan. 29.—Yesterday
evening, n^ar Dothan, Ala., Miss Mamie
Newton was going from her home to that
of a sister when she was met by an un
known white man who blinded her by
throwing something supposed <to be chlo
roform in her face. He then, dragged
her some distance from the road and as
saulted her. The woman is badly, if
not fatally hurt. The people of that
section are hunting for the perpetrator
and It is easy to guess what will be his
fate if caught.
A PECULIAR TRIAL.
Austin, Tex., Jan. 29.—Eugene Von
Boeekmann, wholesale printer and sta
tioner, died this morning after several
days Illness. His throat swelled so that
he could not swallow or breathe, causing
death. The case puzzles the physicians.
Deceased was known throughout the
country to lawyers because of the fact
that he printed and sold the laws of
Texas as passed at each session of the
legislature.
AN IMPORTANT VISITOR.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 29.—Mr. Toro Hoshl,
the Japanese minister at Washington, is
In Atlanta Studying the cotton industry.
He received many callers today and he
obtained from them much information.
Mr. Hoshl says that the south ought to
sell more cotton to Japan and he hopes
to interest merchants and manufactur
ers and Induce them to extend their trade
In his country. He will go from here
to New Orleans.
ILLICIT DISTILLERS CAPTURED.
Dallas, Tex., Jan. 29.—Ed Armstrong,
Tom Longaere and Chastain Bramlett
were brought In by revenue officers from
Erath county tonight and jailed on the
charge of Illicit distilling. A small but
complete etlll with several hundred gal
lons of fermented liquor- was destroyed.
It was located sixteen miles east of Steph
envllle. The prisoners will have their ex
amining trial next Friday.
A-N IMPORTANT TREATY.
Washington, Jan. 29.—It is understood
that a treaty Is soon to be sent to the sen- J
ate negotiated between this country and
Japan on the subject of trade marks and
copyrights. American business men. Who
have suffered from the absence of such
treaty, have been urging the establish
I ment of such relations for some time, J
BETRAYED 8Y THE CAPTAIN
General Roloff and Dr. Luis
May Land in Prison.
JUDGE MORRIS’ CHARGE
To the United States Grand Jury at Balti
more a Vigorous One.
VIOLATING THE NEUTRALITY ACT
Is an Offense Punishable by Fine and Im
prisonment, and the Defendants
Have Strong Testimony to
Face on Trial.
Baltimore, Jan. 29.—The federal grand
jury, which is to hear the case against
the Cuban sympathizers, Gen, Roloff and
Dr. Luis, for violating the neutrality act
In connection with, the shipment of men,
arms and ammunition to Cuba by the
steamer Woodoi, met ip the United States
court room today, and after selecting Mr.
Aubrey Pearre, a foreman, listened to a
vigorous charge by Judge Morris. The
Judge quoted the statute which Is al
leged to have been, violated, and added:
“The statute is intended to enable the
courts of the United States to punish
those who violate the duty which the
United States, as a sovereign govern
ment, owes to other nations to preserve a
strict neutrality and not permit hostile
military expeditions to be fitted out In
Its territory to carry on operations
against any nation or sovereign with
which the United States are at peace.
This is a duty which the* United States
exact from other nations and which It is
in honor bound* to diligently enforce upon
ifcei own citizens. Punishment against
violators of the neutrality laws, which
every sentiment of national honor de
mands shall be enforced, can only be in
flicted through the instrumentality or an
indictment of a grand jury; so you have
a grave and important duty to perform,
to which I invoke an enlightened, im
partial and patriotic diligence.”
Judge Morris, after calling attention to
the President’s proclamation of June 25,
1895, which* warned all persons of the
disturbance in Cuba and demanded strict
neutrality of Americans, said:
"If you should be satisfied by testi
mony that a vessel was purchased at this
port and sailed from here and at some
point on her voyage took on board a body
of men from the United States who were
under military command and intended for
hostile operation against the Spanish au
thorities in Cuba, and that the persons
who took pert in procuring, fitting out
and sending forth the vessel from this
port, did so with the design and knowl
edge that she was to be used to transport
such a body of men under military com
mand, then it should become your sworn
duty to find a presentment and indict
ment against them.”
The punishment for a high mis
demeanor, such as is charged In this case,
is provided for in section 6286 of the
United States revised statutes, and Is for
a fine not exceeding $3,000 and imprison
ment for not more than three years.
United States District Attorney Mar
bury was engaged in another trial today
and could not therefore go before the
grand jury, but he expects to open the
case tomorrow, when the government
witnesses against General Roloff anti Gr.
Luis will give testimony. _. .
Capt. John H. Hudson, otBrooklyn,
who commanded the alleged filibustering
expedition which sailed from here on the
James Woodall, will be the Principal wit
ness for the prosecution. In an interview
today he told why he turned state s evi
dence, and outlined the testimony he will
give before the grand jury. The captain
claims that he was “dumped by
Cuban junta, for whom he risked bla 1'(®
and liberty; that a number of his crew
have made sworn statements to the facts
of the expedition, and that he has been
liable to arrest and imprisonment for
violating the United States neutrality
laws, the same as Capt. Wiborg, oflbe
Steamer Horsa, who is now in the Penn
sylvania penitentiary serving a long sen
tence for an exactly slml ar offens*
Realizing that he could not rely upon the
Cuban junta to protect him, he says he
determined to protect himself by turning
state’s evidence, which he has done.
Hence his presence here and the cases
against the instigators of the expedition.
“We shall make some disclosures at the
trial which will surprise the Cuba" J"""
ta,” was Capt. Hudsons concluding
statement. John Cronin and John Loek
ney, two firemen who were on the
Woodall, are also to appear before the
United States grand jury tomorrow as
■witnesses.
OFFICIAL PROMOTIONS
Announced tfYom the Headquarters of
the Southern Railway Company.
Washington, Jan. 29.—The following
promotions were announced at the gen
eral office of the Southern Railway com
pany in this city today. They will be
come effective Monday:
William H. Taylor, now district pas
senger agent, Norfolk, Va., promoted and
appointed assistant general passenger
agent at Louisville, Ky.
J. H. Wingfield, passenger agent, Nor
folk, Va., takes Taylor’s place. Mr,
Wingfield is now clerk- in the auditor of
disbursements office, Washington.
J. C. Horton, now traveling passenger
agent, Richmond, promoted and appoint
ed passenger agent, Baltimore.
C. W. Westbury is appointed traveling
passenger agent, Richmond, in place of
Mr Horton. Mr. Westbury is now con
ductor of the limited train of the South
ern railway between Washington and
Charlotte.
Thomas P. Hale, soliciting agent,
freight department. New Orleans.
ENTERED A NON-SPIT,
The Sloss Iron and Steel Company Loses
Its Suit with the S. C. & G. Road.
Charleston, B. C„ Jam 29.—Judge Si
monton entered a non-suit yesterday In
the United States circuit court In the case
of the Sloss Iron ahd Steel works, of Bir
mingham, Ala., against the South Caro
lina and Georgia railroad. This means
that the railroad will not ‘have to pay
the $40,000 fQ.f whlcl$,]the.SWSs company
has been contending. It was a suit un
der a contract alleged to have been made
when the railroad was in the hands of a
receiver. r-> •
THE APPLICATION SIGNED.
Washington, Jan. 29.—Attorney-General
Harmon today signed the application for
foreclosure of the Kansas Pacific railroad
mortgage and the pap era were mailed to
be filed In Kansas and Missouri.
? -;i
TEH OF THE MONETARY BILL
Which Had Only Four Opponents
in the Senate.
HOAR OF MASSACHUSETTS
Championed the Measure and Quoted Foreign
Leaders on the Subject.
WANTS PEACE WI1H THE WORLD
Bacon of Georgia Introduces a Besolution
to That Effeot—War of Words in
.the House Over a Bail
road Bill.
Washing-ton, Jan. 29.—The bill for the
representation of the United States on
any International monetary conference
that may be called occupied’ the senate
today almost exclusively, and was finally
passed by the triumphant majority of
46 to 4. It authorizes the President to
appoint four or more commissioners to
any international conference with a view
to securing a fixity of relative value be
tween gold and sliver as money by means
of a common ratio between the metals,
with free mintage at such rates, and It
also authorizes the President to call, In
his discretion, such conferences, to as
semble at such point as may be agreed
upon. The debate on the bill was long
and Interesting, but by far the most im
portant speech was that made by Mr.
Hoar (rep. Mass.). He took the ground
that a very large majority of the people
of the civilized world was in favor of the
double standard of gold and silver. He
quoted two distinguished French states
men—Messrs. Fongerol and Meline—as
strongly in favor of bimetallism, and
said that a resolution introduced In the
French assembly by the first named gen
tleman had the support of 367 out of
450 delegates, or a majority of between
three-fifths and four-fifths.
Mr. Hoar also named as among tne
principal European advocates of bimetal
lism Mr. Balfour, leuder of the English
house of commons, and recalled the re
mark made by him by a member of the
present British cabinet in a brilliant com
pany in England, when he (Mr. Hoai)
declined to repeat what Mr. BaJfourhad
said to him. “Why, Mr. Hoar, it is no
secret that Mr. Balfour's opinions on this
mauler are those of a majority of her
^^r^mTnUonedthe likelihood
of Germany and Russia Joining ln the
bimetallic movement, and he declared, In
this connection, that the tlme had come
for making another effort in that direc
t*PrIor to taking up the monetary con
ference bill a senate bill granting a pen
sion of *8 per month to Mrs. Martha
Frank, of Georgia, widow of a soldier in
tb? Indian war of 1818, and now 102 years
°Mr.' Ilacon^of Georgia, Introduced a
Joint resolution declaring that the United
States deprecate war and desire the
maintenance of peace frlendsh P
with the world, and inviting all civil
lzed nations to make a corresponding and
rHers°^d “heUconuld not submit any
remarks on the subject without touching
on the subject of the pending treaty b
tween the United States and Gieat Brit
ain, which would be manifestly in)proper.
He simply desired to say that it must
be apparent to all that such a declara
tion as was contained ln the resolution,
.when made by congress (the war-making
power) must exert a much stronger In
fluence In the prevention of war and the
encouragement of peace thap possibly
couW bc exerted by any treaty between
two nations. He asked that the Joint
resolution be referred to the committee on
foreign, relations; then it was so referred.
The text follows:
Resolved, That the United States of
America deprecates war and desires the
maintenance of peace f(rl51V?BdeP
with the entire world, and that this de
sire Is not limited to their relations with
any one nation, but extends to their re
lations with all the nations of the earth,
whether the same be great or small,
8tRes^lvediVfurther, That to the end that
these relations of peace and amity now
happily existing between them a™ a{*
nations may be perpetually preserved,
and that wars may be discouraged, and
as far as practicable made impossible,
the United States favor the principle and
practice of international arbitration for
the settlement of all questions In differ
ence between them and any other na
tion which they may fall to adjust by
trefcty or diplomatic negotiation.
Resolved, further, That the United
States do hereby avow as their future
Dollcy and Intention, whenever there
shall arise any question In difference be
tween them and any other nation, which
they fail to adjust by treaty or diplo
matic negotiation, that they shall and
will so far as they can consistently,
witsi the national honor and established
national policies, agree with such other
nation, to submit such question in dif
ference to the arbitrament and final de
cision of an international court of arbi
tration. Such court of arbitration shall,
ln the future as In the past, be consti
tuted by agreement between the parties
consenting thereto, with special reference
and adaptation to the particular question
ln difference and to the conditions then
existln?. __ .. ,
Resolved, furtner, mat me uimw
State* hereby Invite all civilized nations
to make a corresponding anti reciprocal
declaration, to the end that wars be
tween nations may cease, and that an
universal reign of peace may be Inau
gurated and perpetually maintained.
Following Is the text of the monetary
conference bill as amended and Anally
1NA8bui to provide for the representation
of -the United States by pommisstoners
at any international monetary confer
ence hereafter to be called.
Be It enacted by the sena te and house of
representatives of the United States of
America in congress assembled. That
whenever after March 4, 1897, the Presi
dent Of the United States shall determine
that the United States should be repre
sented at any International conference
called by the United States or any other
country with a view to securing by In
ternational agreement a Axlty of relative
value between gold and silver as money
by means of a common ratio between
these metals, with free mintage at such
ratio he is hereby authorized to appoint
Ave or more commissioners to such In
ternational conference: and for compen
sation of said commissioners and for all
reasonable expense connected therewith
to b° approved by the secretary of state;
Including the proportion to be paid by the
United States of the Joint expenses of any
such conference, the sum of one hundred
I thousand dollars, or so much thereof as
may be nectssary, Is hereby appropriated.
See. 2. That the President of the United
States Is hereby authorized. In the name
of the government of the United States
to call, In his discretion, such internation
al conference, to assemble at such point
as may be agreed upon.
The second section of the bill was an
amendment presented by Mr. Bacon, of
■Georgia, adopted and added to the bill as
another section. An amendment present
ed by Mr. Cannon, of Utah, mandatory
upon the President to call the conference,
which is the object of the bill to meet In
Washington on or before October next,
was tabled 41 to S.
The four negative votes upon the final
passage of the bill were cast by Allen,
Pettigrew. Roach and Vilas.
House bill authorizing the construction
of a traffic bridge across the Ouachita
river at Monroe, L.a., was taken from
the calendar and passed.
At 5:30 o’clock the senate sojourned un
til Monday.
IN THE HOUSE.
War between the states of Massachu
setts and Vermont raged for a brief
period on the floor of the house today
over allegations of railroad wrecking In
these commonwealths. The combatants
were Messrs. Powers, of Vermont, and
Barrett, of Massachusetts, and the oc
casion of strife was the consideration of
the report of the conferees upon the bill
providing for the Incorporation of the
purchasers of the Atlantic and Pacific
railroad. The provisions of the bill were
antagonized by Mr. Barrett, who charged
that they concealed a gigantic scheme of
stock Jobbery. Mr. Powers denied that
there was anything of the sort In the bill,
and added that If there had been any
wrecking of the road, as suggested by the
gentleman from Massachusetts, It had
been done by people In and around Bos
ton. In this connection he sarcastically
referred to Mr. Barrett's congressional
experience, which he compared to that of
a rose, which withered and wasted Its
■sweetness on a desert air.
In reply Mr. Barrett gave the house a
history of the receivership of the Cen
tral Vermont railroad, conducted by the
supreme court of that state and extend
ing over a period of thirty years, which,
he said, was the most fraudulent case of
railroad wrecking the country had ever
seen.
i ne report ot me cnniereee wa-s re
jected—75 to 143—and the conferees were
Instructed to insist upon the retention
in the bill of the house amendments, the
principal one of which forbade the issue
of stock except for par value received.
The bill making appropriations for the
military academy was sent to conference
on the senate amendment thereto, the
house conferees b°ing Messrs. Curtis (rep.
N. Y.). Griffin (rep. Wis.), and Tyler
(dem. Va.)
The house refused to take up the bills
on the private calendar, but for nearly an
hour continued in committee of the whole
and considered the agricultural bill with
out completing it.
In the course of its discussion Mr.
Hardy (rep. Ind.), began a speech in fa
for of the acquisition of Cuba, and being
refused permission to conclude, the five
minute rule being in operation, gave no
tice that no bill should pass the house by
unanimous consent for the remainder of
the session.
At 5 o'clock the house took a recess until
8 p. m.. the evening session to be for the
consideration of private pension bills.
House committee on elections No. 3 to
day decided the contested cise of Benoit
against Boatner from the Fifth Louisiana
district in favor of Mr. Boatner, demo
crat, the sitting member.
TWO POWERFUL PETITIONS
In Favor of the Arbitration Treaty
One From London.
Washington, Jan. 29.—Senator Sher
man, of the committee on foreign rela
tions, has received a petition from the
British arbitration society of London,
which that organization asks him to lay
before the senate. The petition is simi
lar to many that have been received from
American societies, and urges the ratifi
cation of the proposed general treaty of
arbitration as the first step between the
two greatest nations of the earth to
ward universal peace.
Unfortunate'y for the British associa
tion it was ignorant of the provisions of
the United States constitution when it
addressed its petition either to congress
or any individual member thereof. The
receipt of petitions or memorials by con
gress from aliens Is prohibited unless
the same come through the state depart
ment. Senator Sherman cannot there
fore present the petition to the senate.
He declines to make its text public or
discuss the petition in general terms,
even. A petition, elaborately printed on
parchment and signed by an even hun
dred cf the leading citizens of Philadel
phia, was presented to the senate this
morning. It urges the senate to ratify
the treaty of arbitration now pending
between this country and Great Britain.
The memorial is signed by Mayor War
wick, the Judges of the various courts,
ex-Senator Edmunds, formerly of Ver
mont, and bankers and capitalists rep
resenting money valued in the millions.
FROM THE COMMERCE COMMITTEE
Washington, Jan. 29.—The house com
merce committee has approved the fol
lowing bills:
Appropriating $70,000 for a light house
at the pitch of Cape Fear river near Wil-<
mington, N. C.
Appropriating $7,000 for a front beacon
of Apalachicola bay range light station,
Florida.
And authorizing "the construction by
the Kansas City, Shreveport and Gulf
Railway company of a bridge across the
Sabine river between Louisiana and
Texas.
CORN AND CHEMICALS.
Said -to Have Supplanted Barley and
Malt In Beer Making.
St. Louis, Jan. 29.—A dispatch from
Milwaukee says: The tremendous drop
In the barley malt product has stirred up
the malters and they evince n dispos
ition to make some Interesting disclosures.
They freely declare that In many brew
eries a ban-el of beer Is being made with
the use of but a half bushel of barley
malt, while the German standard for pure
beer is three bushels. The claim Is as
freely made that com and chemicals have
practically supplanted barley In the pro
duction of the beverage of the world.
When the attention of Mr. Aug. A.
Busch, vice-president of the Anheuser
Busch Brewing association, was called to
the above article, he expressed no sur
prise In seeing the dispatch from Mil
waukee, calling attention to the tre
mendous drop In the barley malt product,
but wondered why more had not been
said In public print with reference to the
matter. Continuing, he said: “We do
not now, nor have we ever, used com In
the production of any of our beers, and
we have always contended that first-clasa
beer cannot be made by using com as a
substitute for barley malt.”
TURNER GETS THE PLUM.
Olympia, Wash., Jan. 29.—After many
days of unsuccessful balloting George F.
Turner, the well known lawyer of
Spokane, who received the caucus nomi
nation of the populists and free sliver re
publicans last night, was elected United
Slates senator by the legislature today
ou the first ballot, receiving 67 votes.
Was the Morning’s Proceedings
in the House.
FILIBUSTERING INDULGED IN
Over the Consideration of the Barnes Rail
road Commission Bill.
THE JF^flNS CONSTITUTION BILL,
* —
Which. ■* mes Up on Monday, Reproduced
in Entirety-Conviot Bill Before
jC'e Senate— Montgomery ’a City
5 Court Judaeehip.
2
? ** tgomery, Ala., Jan. 29.—(Special
St/ Correspondence.)—Today’s morning
s* ^ron experienced one of the wildest
parliamentary contests ever experienced
upon the floor of the Alabama house of
representatives. A volley of motions and
points of (dls)order were fired at Speaker
Clements that would have knocked ’’The
Seotlsh Chieftan" from his rocky emi
nence and burled him forever in a pig
my’s grave. But the veteran presiding
officer was as stern as a marble statue,
and a«* wide awake as a Boneparte.
Nothing but the wildest excitement pre
vailed in the lower ‘house fo.- three hours.
All of the turmoil grew out of a railroad
bill, and the notorious outlaw by that
name never In all o-f his criminal career
created such a vehement whirlwind of
unrest. It was the first filibustering ex
pedition that the legislature has em
barked upon this session, and they took
themselves into such Jungles of parlia
mentary confusion that an African Ben
gal tiger would deilght to retreat to for
safety on his native’heath.
The measure causing so much indignity
was a bill introduced by Hon. Reed
Barnes, the British bulldog from L<ee. In
substance the lengthy measure is as fol
lows:
“To provide for the regulation of rail
road companies and persons in this state;
and to provide for the location and build
ing of passenger and freight depots and
to regulate rates of storage to be
charged; to prevent unjust discrimina
tions in the rates charged for transpor
tation or passengers and freights, and to
prohibit railroad companies, corporations
and lessees in this state from charging
other than just and reasonable rates and
to proscribe a mode of procedure and
rules of evidence in relation thereto; and
to appoint commissioners and to prescribe
their powers and duties in relation to the
same.”
The advocacy of the bill was led byi
Hons. Barnes, Bauldin, Brandon, Brown,
(of Talladega), Cameron and Sheldon.
The opposition was led by Meador, Wal
ler (of Hale), Greene, Wiley and Kyle.
It would require the technicalities of a
Philadelphia lawyer to relate the course
of the pailimentary discussion. It suf
flceth to say that Hon. A. Y. Glover, of
Greene, finally brought the assembly out
of confusion by getting a motion through
to make the bill a special order for to
morrow at 10:30 a. m.. when the house
shall go into a committee of the whole
and take the measure up sereatim. There
is a heavy lobby here on this bill, and
insinuations of filibustering and corpora
tion influence were discussed on the floor
this morning.
CONSTITUTIONAL, CONVENTION.
The next issue of great importance be
fore the house is the constitutional con
vention bill, by the sturdy and popular
young democrat of Wilcox, Hon. S. C.
Jenkins. Mr. Jenkins has devoted almost
his entire time to this measure and his
bill has been made a special order for
next Monday at 11 o’clock. The bill is
of such vital importance to the people
of Alabama that it is given in full be
low:
THE JENKINS CONSTITUTION BILL*
Section 1. Be it enacted by the general
assembly of Alabama, That ail election
shall be held in each county of this state
on Tuesday after the first Monday in
August, 1897, for the purpose of taking
into consideration the constitution of this
state, and revising and amending the
same in the particulars wherein said
constitution appears to require amend
ment; provided, however, that such con
vention shall only be held in case that
It appears that a majority of all the
electors of this state, 21 years of age, and!
upwards, who may vote at said election,
approve of such convention by voting
therefor, in the manner hereinafter pro
vided.
Sec. 2. Be it further enacted. That at
tihe election directed by the first section
of this act, every qualified elector, who
approves of the holding of such conven
tion. shall declare the same by depositing
/his ballot at the voting place where he
may bo entitled to vote, by marking with
a cross mark before the words “For Con
vention” written or printed, or partly
written or partly printed thereon; and
every qualified eleotor of this state vot
ing at said election, who disapproves of
the holding of such a convention shall
deposit his ballot marked with a cross
mark before the words "No Convention,"
written or printed, or partly written or
partly printed thereon. Upon the same
ballot on which each qualified elector of
this state may vote for or against such
convention, as the case may be, he may
also vote for such number of delegates
to said convention as the county in
which such elector is entitled to vote,
may be entitled to elect to said conven
tion under the provisions of this act.
8ec. 3. Be It further enacted. That the
delegates to said convention shall be cit
izens of this state, and shall have the
qualification* required for senators of
this state under the constitution ami laws
thereof, and each county shall have the
same representation In said convention
that it now has in the house of repre
sentatives of the general assembly.
Sec. 4. Be it further enacted. That it
shall be the duty of the Governor of this
state, at least sixty days prior to the
election herein provided for to issue to
the> sheriffs of the several counties of
this state writs of election requiring the
said sheriffs, respectively, forthwith to
take all necessary steps for holding the
election herein'directed in their respective
countie.*,, in the mode and manner pro
vided by law; and said election shall be
held in the same manner and by the offi
cers as provided by law for general elec
tions in this state. The returns of said
election shall be made to the secretary
of state, in the same manner and with
in the same time as returns are directed
to be made for the election of members
of the general assembly, and shall be
opened and counted In the presence of
the Governor, secretary of state and at
torney-general, within fifteen days after
suctif lection.
Sec. 6. Be it further enacted, That it
shall be the duty of the secretary of state,
immediately after the returns of said
election shall have been opened and
counted as required by the precedingBIRMINGHAM STATE H ERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, JANUARY 31, 1897.-TWELVE PAGES. NUMBER 12
THE AGRICULTURAL BILL
Produces the Usual Kick Over
Seed Distribution
REED VOTES AGAINST IT
It Was by a Narrow Margin That the Arbi
tration Treaty
RECEIVED A FAVORABLE REPORT
From the Foreign Relations Committee—
To Settle the Boundary Line of the
Dominion ot Canada—Cox cf Ten
nessee’s Unusual Resolution.
Washington, Jan. 30.—The agricultural
appropriation bill was the principal and
almost the sole subject of consideration
in the house today, this being the third
day it has been on the parliamentary
stocks. As usual the distribution of
seeds gave rise to an animated discus
sion which lasted two hours and com
. prised the usual motion to strike out the
appropriation ($120000), altogether. This
failed—30 to 70, Speaker Reed casting one
of the affirmative votes, the first time
this congress that he has exercised the
privileges of an ordinary member.
An amendment was adopted authoriz
ing the members to select the seeds they
desire, the department of agriculture to
purchase and distribute the same.
On potnts of order the proposed rear
rangement of salaries in the weather
bureau and bureau of animal industry,
recommended by the chiefs, the secretary
and the committee on agriculture were
stricken out of the bill and the provisions
of the present law inserted in place of
them. The bill was passed and after the
passage of two or three private bills the
house, at 4:55, adjourned until Monday.
IT WAS BY A NARROW MARGIN
That the Arbitration Treaty Got a Favor
able Report in Committee.
Washington, Jan. 30.—Every member
of the senate committee on foreign rela
tions, with the exception of Mr. Turpie,
was present this morning when the com
mittee convened a few minutes before 11
o’clock. The entire session was devoted
to the consideration of the general treaty
of arbitration between the Jnited States
and Great Britain. Members denied
themselves to several representatives
who came over from the house and re
fused to be disturbed. At 1:30 p. m. a
vote was taken on the treaty and a favor
able report was ordered made to the sen
ate next Monday, with certain amend
ments. This action was not unanimous
and some individual amendments were
reserved for submission to the senate
when the subject shall come up.
The most important amendment was
that which added to the end of article I.
the following words: ‘‘But no question
which affects the foreign or domestic
policy of either of the high contracting
parties or the relations of -cither with any
other state or power by treaty or other
wise, shal! be subject to arbitration under
this treaty except by a special agree
ment.”
The second amendment strikes out all
reference to his majes:y, the king of Swe
den and Norway, as the umpire, in case
the court fails to agree upon an umpire
in accordance with the provisions of arti
cle III. and article V.
The motion to strike out this clause was
carried with but one negative vote, t'hat
of Senator Gray, of Delaware.
The vote on the final motion to report
the treaty to the senate was so close that
i: startled some of the friends of the con
vention, who believed there would be
practically no opposition to the amended
treaty. When the roll was called the
votes were cast as follows:
In favor of reporting the treaty to the
senate—Messrs. Sherman, Davis, Frye,
Lodge, Culiom, republicans; and Gray,
democrat. Total, 6.
Against reporting the treaty in the sen
ate—Messrs. Morgan. Mills, Daniel, dem
ocrats; and. Cameron, republican. To
tal. 4.
An amendment was also offered insert
ing a clause stating in positive terms
that the Alaskan boundary question
should not be submitted to arbitration
under this treaty, but it was rejected by
the same vote of 6 to 4. It will be of
fered in the senate. The debate in the
committee room developed an opposi
tion to the treaty under any conditions
that was entirely unexpected; and if a
minority of the committee represent a
pro-portinate membership of the senate,
the indications are that the treaty will
have a hard- time securing the requisite
two-thirds vote.
-o
COX, OF TENNESSEE,
Introduces a Bill to Reimburse Confed
erates for Horses and Other Effects.
Washington, Jan. 30.—Mr. Cox (dem.
Tenn.), offered in the house today a bill
which recites the circumstances of Lee’s
surrender at Appomattox and the written
guarantee that the artillery and cavalry
officers of the confederacy should be per
mitted to retain their horses, arms and
baggage. After the surrender the federal
soldiers despoiled the confederates of
• these effects and they were never return
ed to their original owners. His bill ap
propriates J200.000 as a compensation for
•these losses, upon satisfactory proof be
ing furnished to the quartermaster-gen
eral.
TICKETS TO THE BALL
Now Ready and You Can Send in Your
Order With the Rhino.
Washington, ajn. 30.—The Inaugural
committee announces that the tickets for
the Inaugunal ball are now ready for dis
tribution. Eaclji ticket will be accom
panied by a souvenir which is exceedingly
handsome and is included In the price of
the ball ticket—$5.
Orders by mail will be filled in the or
der of receipt.
No complimentary tickets will be is
sued except to President-elect McKinley
and Mrs. McKinley.
THE ARTICLES SIGNED
For a Convention to Settle Boundary
Line of the Dominion of Canada.
Washington, Jan. 30.—Secretary OIney
and the British ambassador at the state
department at 11 o’clock this morning
.signed a convention between the United
States and the Dominion of Canada for
demarkatlon of so much of the 141st
meridian, with longitude, as may be nec
essary for determination of the boundary
between their respective possessions in
North America.” The President will send
this convention to the -senate Monday for
ratification. It provides for a commis
sion similar to the Mexican boundary
commission, which will avail itself of in
formation already, collected under the
commission under charge of Profs. Men
denhall and Duffleld fend Mr. King, of
Canada, who were working under the
agreement made In 1892 on the North
American possessions, and It is believed
this will settle controversy over the loca
tion of the gold fields in that territory.
IS THIS A HOAX?
Letter Supposed to Be Written by Pearl
Bryan Received by Gov. Bradley.
Frankfort, Ky., Jan. 30.—Gov. Bradley
received the following letter today:
Jacksonville, Fla., Jan. 26.
Gov. Bradley, Frankfort, Ky.
Sir—It would be injustice to hang
Scott Jackson and Walling on my account
for I am alive and well, and my parents
will never be able to find me.
Respectfully,
PEARL BRYAN.
P. S.—I leave here this afternoon.
The governor has received numerous
letters threatening him with punishment
if he does not pardon or commute the
sentences of Jackson and Walling. Other
letters say he will meet with a terrible
fate should he show mercy.
OUSTED THE REPUBLICANS.
Nebraska Populists Succeed In Support
ing the Majority Report.
Lincoln, Neb., Jan. 30.—The fusion ma
jority in the lower house of the legisla
ture this evening, after an all-day debate,
unseated the four republican members
from Douglass county and confirmed the
right of the fusion contestants to the
seats.
The charge against the unseated mem
bers was that of bribery, buying of
naturalization papers and intimidation.
Eleven fusion members voted with the
republicans against unseating, making
the final vote 05 to 43 in favor of the ma
jority report of the committee on privil
eges and elections.
LONDON’S NEW BISHOP.
The Forma] Enthronement Took Place at
St. Paul's With Only a Fair
Attendance.
London, Jan. 30.—The formal enthrone
ment of Right Hon. and Right Rev.
Mandell Creighton as bishop of London,
to succeed the Right Hon. and Right Rev.
Frederick Temple, elevated to the arch
bishopric of Canterbury, and Primarte of
all England, took place in St. Paul's
cathedral today and contrary to expecta
tion was in no wise an Imposing spectacle.
The cathedral was only about half filled
with spectators and there was only a fair
attendance of the London clergy. The
actual entertainment took place in the
choir out of sight of the majority of the
people present.
The mandate of the archbishop of Can
terbury for the enthronement of the new
bishop of London was delivered by the
Right Rev. George Rodney Eden, bishop
of Dover and the dean of St. Paul’s
cathedral, the Very Rev. Robert Gregory,
D.D., administered the oath. After these
ceremonies communion was celebrated by
Bishop Creighton.
TO PROTECT TRADE MARKS.
An Urgent Treaty With Japan is Deem
ed Advisable by Olney.
Washington, Jan. 30.—Under the treaty
with Japan, proclaimed March. 21, 1895,
which does not, however, go into effect
until July 17, 1899, there is an article
granting the citizens or either country
the same protection as native citizens
in regard “to patents, trade marks and
designs, upon fulfillment of the formali
ties of law.”
Since that treaty was negotiated the
Japanese have Imitated American manu
facturers using trade marks and other
individual designs and imported such
goods Into this county—at prices below
those at which the same goods
can be made here. Business men
here protested and recently Secretary
Olney negotiated a very brief treaty
which makes article XVI., of this treaty
go into effect at once. The senate com
mittee on foreign relations this afternoon
ordered a favorable report to be made
on this treaty and It will probably be
ratified at once.
ARCHBISHOP’S WALSH'S LETTER.
Dublin, Jan. 30.—The Most Rev. W. J.
Walsh, Roman Catholic archbishop of
Dublin, has Written a letter In which
he advises the reference of the question
of leadership of the Irish national party
to a small representative committee,
whose decision shall be final. The arch
bishop also expresses his approval of an
article written by Timothy Harrington,
M. P., for the harbor division of Dublin,
and published in. United Ireland, suggest
ing the re-union of the factions of the
party under the leadership of John Red
mond. The Dublin Independent com
menting upon Archbishop AVaish’s let
ter declares that Redmond will never
sit in council with the men who betrayedi
Parnell.
FAILED IN THE EFFORT.
Springfield, 0., Jan'. 30.—Louis C. Evans,
the millionaire president of the A. C.
Evans Manufacturing company, returned
from New York this morning. He went
to his brother George’s room, in the
ArCade hotel, and shot himself in the
forehead with a 32-calibre revolver. He
held the weapon too close, and the ball
glanced upward under the skin. He was
not fatally hurt. Evans and his wife have
been visiting In New York, but he re
turned home alone this morning. The
cause of this attempt upon his life is
unknown.
MUST HAVE HELP.
London, Jan. 30.—The Dillon faction of
the Irish parly are understood to be af
flicted with such a want of funds as may
prevent them keeping their full strength
In the house throughout the session.
Some twenty-four Diilonites require aid
from the party funds involving a drain of
about £4,000 sterling per session. About
fourteen of Mr. Healy's supporters re
quire similar help, but the Healy sup
plies arcp roportlonateiy greater than
those under Mr. Dillon’s deposit. No con
tributions of any consequence come now
from America. •
BRYAN WILL SHOOT DUCKS.
Galveston, Tex., Jan. 30.—Hon. W. J.
Bryan, accompanied by ex-Gov. Hogg, is
expected to.arrive here tomorrow night.
They expect to leave on Col. W. L.
Moody’s launch Monday morning to shoot
ducks at Lake Surprise. Mr. Bryan
will return In time to lecture here
Wednesday night.
INDOBSED FOR PI*T
New Orleans, Jan. 30.—The leading re
publicans of the Third and Sixth congr s
slonal districts met today and unanimous
ly indorsed Capt. A. T. Wimberly, nation
al committeeman for Louisiana, for the
office of collector of customs, port and
district of New Orleans.
THE MILK INTOCOCOANUT
Weyler, Rothschild &. Co, Pre
pare a Big Bluff,
WHICH APPEARS FISHY
Will Try to Induce Uncle Sam to Take a
Hand in the Reforms
TO BE OFFERED THE CUBANS
Insurgents Capture an Impoit.nt Town
Five Generals Tired of Weyler’s Butch
eries—General Eoloff and Dr. Luis
Indicted for Belligerency.
Key Wert, Fla., Jan. 30.—Advices re
ceived tonight by the steamer Olivette,
say: A secret meeting was held in the
palace recently in which Ahumada, Wey
ler's substitute, Palmerola, secretary of
the government; Montoro, Galvez and
Cueto, for the autonomist party in Ha
bell, and Rivere, for the reformists, took
pnrt and it is hinted a representative of
the firm of H. Upmann & Co., Roth
schild's agents at Havana, assisted. The
object of tlie meeting was to discuss the
proposed reforms soon to be granted
Cuba. The consent, it appears, of the
Cleveland administration, was consid
ered necessary, and it was believed would
be granted, but as in all contracts where
bllatoral interests are concerned, the
party of the third part must give his
entire conformity, it was thought ad
visable to explore that party’s will and
if possible induce him to give his volun
tary consent, either by framing promises
or, if necessary, by monetary influences,
which would be liberally expended.
Somebody was required to make over
tures to Gomez, who is the remaining,
so they believe, or visible head of the
revolution, and Marces Garcia and Spot
torno. the renegade Cuban, who had
been purposely called for the meeting,
was designated. He accepted the pro
posal at once. He will start tomorrow
for Sancti Spirltus and from there will
proceed to Gomez’s camp, which is said
to be in that vicinity. Doubts are enter
tained as to whether Gomez will receive
him or enter intd any negotiations with
the Spanish government. It is reported
Gomez has warned Garcia that it he
catches him he will hang him as a trait
or to his country.
The participation of the Rothschilds in
this affair makes the impression that a
deep money game is beyond the screen,
and that reform humbug is simply a bluff
on the part of Spain on the United States
and Europe to avoid diplomatic contin
gencies, which may arise when th£ Mc
Kinley administration comes into power.
Undoubtedly, If the so-called milk and
water reforms are granted, Weyler will
not be the man to promulgate them, as he
is not a persona grata to the rebels.
The insurgents have captured the town
of Palmas Atlan, near Manzanillo, sack
ing all the stores. Five generals have
asked leave of absence to return to Spain,
apparently disgusted/ with Weyler’s
atrocious policy.
The generals are Pin, Bernal, Alonzo,
Lozas and Figueroa. Gen. Luque has
asked for reinfoicements hurriedly. Gen.
Gonzales Munoz has requested leave to
march to the field, being displeased
with certain dealings in the general staff
of which he has charge.
THEY HOPE SO, AT LEAST.
Madrid. Jan. 30.—Epoca says that' Gen.
Azcarraga, minister of war, has inti
mated in the course of a conversation,
that arrangements with Cuban rebels
looking to a cessation of hostilities in
Cuba ma>1 possibly be reached soon.
Madrid newspapers profess the belief
that the recent visit of United States
Minister Tayior to the Duke of Tetutan,
minister of foreign affairs, was an event
of great importance In its bearing upon
the situation in Cuba.
indictmenTs” found
And Bench Warrants Issued for Gen.
Roloff and Dr. Jose J. Luis
at Baltimore.
Baltimore, Jan. 30.—The United States
grand jury to-day found Indictments
against Gen. Carlos Roloft, secretary of
war of theCuban provisional government,
and his compatriot, Dr. Jose J. Luis, on
the charge of “beginning, setting on foot
and providing, within the district of
Maryland, means for a military expedi
tion against the territory of a foreign
prince with whom the United States is at
peace; to-wit: Against the island! of
Cuba.”
The crime is charged as committed
July 3, 1895. Capt. Hudson, on that date,
purchased the steamer James Woodall in
this port for $13,000 for the Cuban junta
and fitted her up as a filibuster. On
July 9, of that year, the Woodall sailed
hence, ostensibly for Yucatan; but it is
alleged that RololT and Luis caused the
vessel to put in at Arbor Key, Fla., where
.men and munitions of war were taken on
board and subsequently landed on the
Cuban coast.
A second indictment for conspiracy is
found against the men, in which the
name of John T. Smith, otherwise known
as J. T. Smith, is included. Roloff is said
in the indictment to have been otherwise
known as C. Miller and Dr. Luis has a
number of aliases, among which are J. J.
Luis. J. J. Luccas and Dr. Luisus.
A bench warrant will be issued and the
men brought here from New York, where
they are held in bail by United States
Commissioner Shields for trial. It Is
thought the-hearing o8 the case before
Judge Morris, in the United' States dis
trict will be begun promptly upon their
arrival. The witnesses before the grand
jury and also the witnesses who might
appear at the trial of the charges, were
Capt. John M. Hudson, of Brooklyn, and
John Cronin and John Loekney, of this
city.
THE NEW YORKS WON.
Norfolk, Va.. . Jan. 30.—Two picked
crews from the New York and the battle
ship Indiana raced for the championship
of the navy and a $7,500 parse In Hampton
Roads this afternoon over a five mile
course. The New York crew won by
about four boat lengths.
A GREAT INCREASE^
Norfolk, Va., Jan. 30.—Norfolk cotton
receipts during the five months ended to
day were 610,484 bales, as against 228,707
bales last year, an increase of 382,747
bales.
LATEST THEORY IN SCIENCE
Vibrations Which Produce Sound
and Light
CAN NOW BE CALCULATED
Health of the Czar and Czarina the Cause for
Much Speculation.
BAYARD VERY MUCH IN DEMAND
Prince of Wales Will Break Bread With
the Ambassador — France Complains
of a Dearth of Children—Cham
berlain in a Bad Light.
Bondon, Jan. 30.—(Copyright, 1897, by
the Sun Printing and Publishing Associa
tion.)—The latest' discovery, or, rather,
the latest theoi*y in science is that of
brain waves, so at least It is described
in the presidential address delivered
Thursday to the British Society of
Physical Research by Prof. William
Crookes. He entered before launching
his theory upon an elaborate calculation
as to the vibrations which produce sound
and light.
Then he applied a similar law to the
subject of thought transferrence, and
suggested that it was quite conceivable
that intense thought concentrated by one
person upon another with whom he was
in close sympathy should Induce a tel
opathetic ch'ain along which brain waves
should go straight to their goal without
use of energy due to distance. Such a
speculation was, hei admitted, new and
strange to science, as it was at present
strictly provisional; but he was bold
enough to make it, and the time might
come when it could be submitted to ex
perimental tests. The professor spoke of
the work which is being done by the so
ciety as likely to form no unworthy pref
ace to the profoundest science of a man
of nature and of woilds not realized
than we yet had, and said he could sec
no reason why any man of scientific minu
should rather shut his eyes to or stand
deliberately aloof from it. He endeav
ored in a long argument to clear away
the "sclentfle superstitions" which pre
vent many from venturing into research
which might in time dominate the whole
A-orld of thought.
It is difficult, and not impossible to dis
cover the truth among the mass of con
flicting reports in regard to the health of
the czar. It is a matter of some signifi
cance that all of the pessimist mongers
com? from St. Petersburg via Vienna,
while all the official announcements af
firm that the czar is in the best of health.
Still, it is practically admitted in the
semi-official report that the postpone
ment of certain royal visits Is due to the
unsatisfactory condition- of both the em
peror and empress. There is no doubt
whatever that the terrific strain of events
during the past year has had a severe
effect upon the royal couple. It could
not have been otherwise had they been
of the most robust physique. It is ad
mitted also that the young emperor com
mitted the same mistake as his father
in insisting upon making personal inves
tigation of every matter demanding his
attention as a sovereign. His constitu
tion is weaker than that of Alexander
III., and the result is a partial nervous
and physical breakdown. This, accord
ing to the most reliable accounts at hand,
has caused frequent attacks of neuraJ
gia in the nature of ocacsional emotional
collapses and even one or two fainting
fits. The situation has been aggravated
by the sharp and Jealous rivalry between
t'he two factions at court with regard to
certain features of the government’s pol
icy. This has greatly distressed the czar,
who does not possess his father's lofty,
though arbitrary decision of character.
Jt is evert said that he has expressed
helpless disgust at the cabinet council.
The latest blow was the loss of the ex
pectation of the early birth of an heir
to the throne, which was a great disap
pointment to the czar, as well as to the
whole Russian people. It is fully real
ized that the situation demands rest
mure than medicine for boith the emperor
and the empress, and the organization of
a new council of state to relieve the
czar of a large measure of detail work
will do much to restore him to his full
vigor.
No day now passes which does not add
to the evidence of how great a man is the
American ambassador in the estimation
of the English people. •
His public engagements for the next
few weeks are limited only by his inclina
tion to accept Invitations. He is already
booked to speak at Harrow, Sheffield and
at the Mansion house, at the Washing
ton’s birthday dinner and at other places.
Next Wednesday he will entertain at his
own table twenty-six gentlemen who
from the English point of view include
the moat distinguished individuals in all
the land. The Prince of Wales will for
the first time thus honor an American
envoy. In fact It begins to appear that
the foremost men of the British empire
propose to indicate to the unappreciative
authorities at Washington that in their
opinion at all events Ambassador Bay
ard is a bigger man than his titular su
periors.
Frenchmen, or a large section of them,
are heglnning to manifest serious con
cern Over the revelation of the last cen
sus that France Is the only great nation
which iio longer is obeying the divine
command to Increase and multiply. The
subject has been taken vigorously In
hand by public men and others and vari
ous plans h've already been suggested
for making Frenchmen amenable to the
compulsory fatherhood. It has been
pointed oot that by reason of her short
comings In this respect France loses
every year a battle of Sedan. The na
tional alliance for the increase of the
population of France has this week pre
sented a petition to the prime minister
setting forth certain drastic measures
which the government Is urged
to adopt. Dr. Bestlllon, the Inventor of
the system of measuring criminals, is the
head of the society and Its plan includes
some interesting features. It proposes
that government scholarships in schools
and academies be given only to families
having at least three children living. All
favors pf the government, such as tobac
conists'.license, concessions in the colon
ies. etq.. shall be given such families.
When Oie claims of government officials
for promotion are decided, the number of
their children shall be taken into account.
Allowances and traveling expenses to of
ficials as well as salaries of such shall
be regulated according to the number of
their children. Posts under the govern
ment, except those requiring such special
qualifications shall be given only to fa
thers bavlog more than three children.
Already something has been done to en
courage large families. For Instance,
every Seventh child may be educated and
boarded at school at the expense of the
nation. This law was passed some yt*ars
ago. but no results are apparent.
It Is again announced, this time from
an English source, that photography in
natural colors I? an accomplished fact.
The news reaches the public through Sir
Henry Wood, secretary of the London
Society of Arts, who tested the discovery
with other experts at King's college this
week. The Inventor Is Vllledien
Chassagne, of Paris, The process is sim
ple and inexpensive. The negative is
taken on a gelatine plate which has been
treated with a solution of certain salts.
The nature of the solution used is for the
present kept secret. The negative Is de
veloped and fixed In the ordinary way,
and when finished looks like any other
negative. From It the positive Is printed
on sensitized paper or a gelatine film
plate or paper having previously been
treated with an unknown solution. The
positive looks exactly like an ordinary
photographic print, and shows no trace of
color. Tt Is then washed over with a
three colored solution, blue, green and
red, amd it takes up In succession the ap
propriate color In the appropriate parts
and combinations of colors giving all va
rieties of tint. Thus in a landscape the
trees take the various hues, green; the
sky become® blue: flower? show their
proper colors; bricks and tiles or musts
are red and soon. In a portrait the flesh
tints come out well, and the different
colors of the costume are accurately
given. The general appearance of the
picture is that of a colored photograph.
Looked at from a distance it would be
taken for one. Inspected under magnify
ing power it is seen that the colors fol
low details in a manner hardly possible
for hand work. Sir Henry Wood says
of the tests of the process made at King's
college that Chassagne treated with per
fect success some positives he had
brought with him, and with quite as
much success as he expected, some posi
tives made by ourselves from negatives
which he took of various test objects.
The light was extremely bad. The day
was foggy and our pictures were inferior,
still, when treated as above described
they showed with perfect accuracy and a
distinctness quite sufficient to test the
process.
The distinct note of alarm In Mr.
Chamberlain’s speech on South African
affairs In the house of commons yesterday
has aroused considerable uneasiness,
which is reflected in the sharp drop in
prices at the stock exchange today.
The speech was certainly an able one,
and was as remarkable for what It did
not say as for what it did. It had the
effect of promptly silencing the opposi
tion among the supporters of the govern
ment to the appointment of a committee
of inquiry and nothing can now prevent
at least, the form of investigation. The
speech contained one significant phrase
which has not a pleasant sound in hon
est ears. "The committee," the speaker
said, "will know that it has to shield
great national interests and it will know
how to subordinate personal prejudices
to those higher and patriotic considera
tions.” This is very different from the
function assigned to thp committee by
the government last session. Then It
was to be the committee's business to
find out the truth of the whole miserable
South African business, no matter what
"interests,” national or otherwise were
affected thereby. The result of the de
bate on the whole may be regarded as
favorable to Mr. Rhodes. The public
record of the fifteen politicians who will
compose the committee of inquiry justi
fies the assumption that whatever be
the nature of the evidence laid before it,
it certainly will not report In favor of
putting Mr. Rhodes on trial for high
treason or any minor offense. Mr.
Rhodes’ present Idea is to have himself
examined by the committee as early as
possible and then to return to South
Africa to resume his intrigues against the
Transvaal republic, the existence of
which is an impassable barrier to the
realization of his ambitious schemes,
leaving to his accomplice? in high places
in this country the task of blocking the
committee by a vast quantity of evi
dence. It is thought possible by this
means to keep the committee at work
for two or three sessions of parliament
until having wearied everybody of the
subject he will present the world with
the accomplished fact of a successful
revolution in the Transvaaal.
The programme on its face seems im
possible and rentable, but It is seriously
entertained by Rnudes and his accom
plices. A good many people are still dis
posed to place Joe Chamberlain In the
latter category, while others prefer to
believe that he was merely the dupe of
the millionaire filibusters. A few months
will suffice to show which theory Is ac
curate. If Mr. Chamberlain honestly de
sires to get at the truth he will be no
party to delay, and the committee ought
In that case to finish its labors this ses
sion: Meanwhile, some curious English
men, who are not afflicted with the taint
of jingoism, continue to ask why Rhodes
remains a member of the queen’s most
honorable privy council.
An anonymous writer to the Dally
Chronicle, who is reported to be no less
e. person than Lord Loch, formerly gov
ernor of Cape Colony and high commis
sioner in South Africa, pertinently re
minds the country that as a privy coun
cilor Rhodes swore to ‘'advise the queen
to the best of hto discretion, to advise
for the queen’s honor and the good of
the public without partiality, to keep
the queen's counsel secret, to avoid cor
ruption, to help and strengthen the ex
ecution of what shall be resolved, to
withstand all persons who would attempt
the contrary, to observe, keep and do
all that a good and true counsellor ought
to do to his sovereign.”
By Rhodes’ own admissions he is guilty
of acts which constituted a violation of
every one of these solemn obligations.
There is no need tb put him on trial, fur
he has confessed, and, to do the man
Justice, he ha smade no hypocritical pre
tence of being sorry for anything except
the .failure of his conspiracy. It Is evi
dent, therefore, that President Ki-uger
has good cause for complaint and ample
ground for suspicion of England’s good’
faith, so long as Cecil Rhodes Is permit
ted to remain a privy councillor.
NOT A SINGLE TAXER.
Chicago, Jan. 30.—Lyman J. Gage, the
prospective secretary of the treasury in
President-elect McKinley’s cabinet, posi
tively denied today the published story
that he was a single taxer and an uncom
promising adherent of Henry George
upon that subject. “There is not the
slightest foundation for the report that I
am now or ever was a single tax man,”
said Mr. Gage, “and nothing that I have
ever said or written on economic sub
jects could furnish the slightest grounds
for such a statement.”
DIED OF HYDROPHOBIA.
Gainesville, Fla.; Jan. 30.—A. B.
Thomas, a boy of 15 years, died at his
home near Hague yesterday of hydro
phobia. He was bitten by a mad dog
last September, but the wound healed and
he was apparently enjoying good health
until Thursday, when he was attacked
with fits, which came spasmodically until
Friday, when he died.
A SMALL BLAZE.
Richmond, Va„ Jan. 30.—A special to
the Dispatch says that Friday night a
fire at Independence, the county seat of
Grayson county, destroyed the general
merchandise store of Lunley & Dickeys
and the hotel owned by E. T. Kirby. The
cause of the fire is unknown. Loss about
110,000, with little Insurance. The build
ings burned were the principal ones in
the town.
BARNES' RAILROAD BILL
Occupied the Entire Morning
Session of the House,
SECTION ONE IN HAND
The Bill Calls Forth Great Energy From the
Position.
f-r
THE CUNNl'®HAM CONVICT BILL
/—
Passed the rate by a Decisive Vote —
Hon. Da g 1 Ij. Green Introduces the
Polf Jommission'and Munic
/ Qpal. Election Bills.
Mbatgorrtefy, iAla., Jan. 30.—(Special
Staff Correspondence.)—In accordance
with the motion adopted at yesterday’s
session the house of representatives this
morning resolved Itself into a committee
of the whole and proceeded to take up
the Barnes railroad bill sereatum. The
entire morning session was devoted to
section 1 of the bill. The first twenty or
thirty minutes after the bill was called up
there was another tempest of disorder re
sembling that of yesterday morning's ses
sion, and it seemed for a time that the
transaction of business would be a thing
impossible. Finally the parliamentary
discussion was disposed of and peace
reigned supreme Cameron, of Sum
ter, was In the chair most of the
morning session and he makes an impar
tial and able presiding officer.
Section 1 of the railroad bill reads as
follows;
Be it enacted by the general assembly
of the state of Alabama. That there shall
be three commissioners appointed by the
Governor with the advice and consent of
the senate, known as the railroad com
missioners of Alabama, consisting of a
president and two associates; of whom
one shall be of experience in the law and
one of experience in til - railway busi
ness. One of the commissioners to be ap
pointed as soon as practicable after tne
approval of this act, and the other two to
be appointed after the expiration of two
years; the term of office of each commis
sioners shall be six years and each com
missioner appointed hereunder shall also
continue in office until his successor is
duly appointed and qualities; provided,
that the two members of the present rail
road commission now In office and ap
pointed under and by virtue of authority
conferred by an act of the general a-sem
bly of Alabama, and approved on the
26tli day of February, 1881, and amended
December 4, 1886, and whose term of of
fice under said act does not expire until
-A. D.. 1890, shall remain in of
fice till the expiration of such term and
until their successors are appointed and
qualified. The salary of each commis
sioner shall be twenty-five hundred dol
lars per annum to be paid trom the treas
ury of the state. Any commissioner may
be suspended from office by order of the
Governor, who shall report the fact of
such suspension and reasons therefor to
the next state senate, and if a majority
of that body declare that said commis
sioner shall be removed from ifflee. his
term of office shall expire. The G iver
nor shall have the same power to fill va
cancies In the office of commissioner as to
fill other vacancies. Said commissioners
shall take an oath to be framed by ihe
Governor, and shall not Jointly or sever
ally or in any way, be the holders of any
railroad stock or bonds, or to be agent
or employe of any railroad company, or
have any Interest In any way In any rail
road and shall se continue during the r
term of office; and in case any commis
sioner becomes disqualified In any way he
shall at once remove the disqualification
or resign, and on failure so to do he must
be suspended from office by the Governor
an* dealt with as hereinafter provided.
In case of suspension the Governor may
fill the vacancy until the suspended com
missioner is restored nr removed.
Longshore, (pop. of Shelby), offered an
amendment to this section providing that
members of the railroad commission, ap
pointed by the governor shall be chosen
from the three dominant parties, demo
cratic, republican and populist, respect
ively. Discussion of this amendment
consumed the remainder of the morning
session and when the hour of adjourn
ment arrived the first amendment to the
first section of the lengthy bill had not
been acted upon.
Hon. A. Y. Glover, of Greene, made a
strong speech In opposition to the meas
ure and had the floor when the house ad
journed.
Barnes, of Lee, author of the bill, led
the fight in favor of section 1 in its en
tirety.
Timberlake, of Jackson, and Glover, of
Greene, opposed the provisions of the
entire bill, and while they were the only
members who participated in the discus
sion of the merits of section 1. there was
considerable private work done on the
floor on both sides.
The following bills were introduced:
H. 1033, By Mr. Burns,—To amend sec- <■
tions 1 and 3 of an act to incorporate the
South Alabama and Gulf Itailroad com
pany, approved Feb. 18, 1895. Corpora
tions.
H. 1034, By Mr. Glover—To Incorporate
the Eutaw Presbyterian church. Cor
porations.
H. 1035, By Mr. Greene—To Incorporate
! the Alabama Accident Life association,
of Birmingham, Ala. Corporations.
H. 1038, By Mr. Altman—To create a
hoard of police commissioners for the
city of Birmingham, to provide for their
election by the qualified voters of the
city of Birmingham, the corporate name
of this city being the mayor and aider
men of Birmingham, and to prescribe
the powers and duties of the fame, and to
better regulate the police department of
said city. Judiciary.
H. 1037, Also—To provide for the collec
tion of local assessments for public Im
provements of the mayor and aldermen
of Birmingham. Ways and means.
H. 1038, Also—To amend the charter of
the city of Birmingham, so as to change
and establish the time for holding elec
tions for mayor and aldermen in said
city; to alter, define and tlx the term of
office of the present mayor and aldermen
of such city, and the mayor and aider
men hereafter 40 be elected; and to pro
vide for the drawing of lots to determine
which of the present aldermen of said
city shall hold for the short term and the
long term respectively. Corporations.
H. 1039, Also—To prescribe a manner of
filling vacancies In the office of mayor
and aldermen of the city of Birmingham.
Judiciary.
H. 1040. Also—To authorize, ratify and
confirm the schedule of licenses for the
city of Birmingham, and the ordinances
of the board of mayor and aldermen of
said city adopting and establishing the
same. Ways and means.
H. 1041, by Lipscomb—‘To authorize the
I owners of certain real estate In Blrming
■ ■ • •• "-0BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD. _
VOLUME 23 * BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1897. ' - NUMBER 13
ALL EYES ONMONTGOMERY
The City Chock-a-Block With
Filibustering Parties.
ALL OF THEM HARD AT WORK
Ccstitutional Convention Has the Day and a
Hot Fight Is On.
INCH BY INCH THE CONTEST
Is Being Waged and the End Cannot be Pre
dicted Though Friends of the Measure
Say They Will Certainly Win.
Police Commission Bill Goes Before the
House Judiciary Committee Tomor
rowNigiht—Lobbyists at Work
On the Measure-What
Was Done in Both
Houses.
Montgomery, Feb. 1.—(Special Staff
Correspondence.)—The Birmingham po
lice commission bill will come up before
•the house judiciary committee Wednes
day night. The pros and antis are well
and ably represented here, and a lively
'trial is expected when the committee
meets.
How the report will be made on this
measure is beyond conjecture, though
those opposing the present status of afr
fairs say they will win.
THE EVANGEL IN LUCK.
Private information comes from Wash
ington that J. C. Manning, the apostle of
populism in Alabama, who turned repub
lican in the last campaign, has been
slated for third assistant postmaster- '■
general. Manning has the indorsement
of the republican executive committees of
every southern and about half of the
northern states.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVEN
TION.
Wednesday promises to be the greatest
day of the entire Bession of the general
assembly. On that day the question of
a "constitutional convention” will be set
tled.
A strong fight Is being made in behalf
of the measure. There is a large and in
fluential lobby of the commercial bodies
of Alabama here pushing the bill. The
railroads and corporate Influences of the
state are fighting the bill and using ev
ery conceivable means to defeat It, but
the Judiciary committee in both branches
of the legislature have reported favora
bly on it.
Both sides are bitterly contesting every
inch of the ground and the fight grows
hotter and hotter. One of the objections
urged is that the convention is in the in
terest of Birmingham and aims at In
creased burdens of taxation and the ap
prehension of disfranchisement of the
Illiterate white and negro citizens.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 1.—(Special.)—
The house, in committee of the whole,
wasted another morning of its limited
time la the consideration of the first
amendment to the first section of the
bill which proposes the creation of a
new railroad commission for Alabama
and the establishment of a new code of
railway laws.
After roll call and the introduction of a
number of unimportant bills, very few of
which will ever be reached should they
get on the calendar, the house at 10:30 re
solved itself Into a committee of the whole
for the purpose of continuing considera
tion of the now famous lArnes railroad
bill. Mr. Glover, of Greene, who so ably
opposed the measure on Saturday, had
the floor when the committee adjourned,
but was compelled, though unwillingly,
t to surrender this morning on account of
a severe cold and sore throat.
Davis, of Marion, moved to lay Mr.
Longshore’s amendment, which provides
that the railroad commissioners be ap
pointed from the three dominant parties,
upon the table. This motion was pro
nounced out of order in a committee of
the whole. Mr. Kyle, of Morgan, moved
that Mr. Longshore’s amendment be acted
upon immediately. The chair ruled Mr.
Kyle out of order, whereupon he appealed
from the decision and the chair was over
ruled. Discussion of the amendment then
began and Mr. Barnes, of Lee, author of
the bill, led the discussion in opposition
to the amendment. Mr. Barnes argued
ably in the Interests of his bill, making
bne of the strongest speeches of the ses
sion. He said, in answer to a question,
that he was willing to amend the bill so as
to have the commissioners elected by the
people.
' Mr. Wiley next took the floor, and made
an able argument against the bill from
which the following paragraphs art ap
proximate abstracts:
We have in our law substantially ev
ery provision of the Georgia law except
that which places absolute and autocratic
power In the hands of the commission
ers with the extreme and excessive pen
alties with which to enforce the same,
which Is the marked and distinguishing
feature of the latter.
The railroads of this state pay more
than otie-flfth nf all our taxes. The re
cent report of our commission shows
that the assessed value of railroad prop
erties In this state approximates $D0,
000,000, upon which they pay Into the
state treasury annually more than J500,
000. In consideration of this, the state
owes to them, and Is supposed to guar
antee to them, protection in their prop
erty lights, and not confiscation.
By the bill now proposed, absolute and
autocratic power is conferred upon three
commissioners, not merely to regulate,
but absolutely to prescribe the terms to
and conditions upon whleh the railroad
properties of this state shall be operated'
and conducted, and from the decision of
which tribunal there is no appeal.
The railroad business, perhaps more
than any other, requires ns a condition
to proficiency, years of study, appren
ticeship, and practical experience. It is
out of the question to say that any man,
oo matter how gifted, Is competent with
out training or experience to assume ab
solute conti'Ql and management of rail
road properties valued at more than $.v>,
000.000—and yet by the provisions of the
bill In question It Is proposed to confer
this power upon three of our cltlzers,
one of whom must be an attorney, the
other a farmer or business man, and
the other a person supposed to know
something of railroad business. In spite
of the plausable phraseology with which
the act is Clothed, it is impossible to
conceal the fact that It confers absolute
and autocratic power upon the commis
sioners. While It Is provided that the
commissioners shall prescribe rates
«>’ ‘nix are lust and reasonable, the same
section which declares the power also
declares that the decision of the com
missioners shall be sufficient evidence of
the fact, that the rates fixed are just and
reasonable, and from their decision there
is no appeal.
The terms of this act amount in effeit
to the appointment of permanent receiv
ers of all the railroad properties In the
eitate without the slightest recourse pro
vided in the act to the owners of the
properties affected against injustice or
unscrupulous conduct on the parr of
such receivers. If the property of an In
dividual or corporation is, by the strong
arm of the court, taken from its cus
tody and placed in the control of an offi
cer of the court, the owner is at leas:
permitted to complain to the court of
the improper exercise of power confer
red, but the railroad interests of the
state under the provisions of this act
are not left even that recourse, and un
less submission is made to the arbitrary
rulings of the commission, they are to
be mulcted or fined J5.000 for each of
fense! From this It is not difficult to
see ihat new capital will not seek In
vestment In new railroad property in,this
state, and that which is already invested
by the enactment of the law wUl receive
a blow which will greatly impair its
market value, together with the value of
such securities as may have been issued
and negotiated upon it.
He then proceeded to relate how the
present commission was working admir
ably, and that no order of theirs had
ever failed to be promptly obeyed and
respected by rhe railroads. He Insisted
that no hardship should be visited on the
railroads at this time, as adverse legisla
tion would not only cripple the roads we
now have, but would prevent the build
ing of several which are now about to be
commenced.
The senate, after the call of the com
mittees this morning, went into consid
eration of the tax commissioner’s bill,
drawn by Judge Mitchell, of Florence,
and passed the house last week.
The bill is known to have the unquali
fied support of Gov. Johnston, who be
lieves that its enactment would bring
enough additional revenue to the state
to enable it to meet its deficit, over J500,
000, without being compelled to increase
the present tax rate.
Senator Brewer, ex-auditor and chair
man of the finance committee, took
charge of the bill and made a strong
speech In Its favor. Aside from the con
vincing logic of the facts and figures
with which he made the question lumin
ous, his opinion on all questions of
revenue have great personal weight with
the senate.
Senator Moody opposed the bil! on ac
count of retroactive features, as it gives
the county tax commissioners the power
to assess taxes on escaped property as
far back as five years. He feared this
feature, which would be popularly re
sented as "a back-tax grab,” like the
back salary grab In congress, and might
lead to Its repeal two years hence.
Mr. Case also strongly advocated the
bill.
Senator Hundley opposed the bill be
cause it allowed the county commission
ers 10 per cent, commissions. He thought
5 per cent, was sufficient. He also op
posed the 2 per cent, back tax feature.
The bill finally passed with several Im
portant amendments by a comfortable
majority, and the house this afternoon
concurred In the senate's amendment.
All the bill now requires to make it a law
Is the signature of the governor, which
will be affixed without delay. There
appears to be little doubt but that the
chief commlssionership will be awarded
to Judge W. B. Wood, of Florence, who
has worked so Industriously In the Inter
ests of the measure.
The senate spent most of the afternoon
session considering the first section of the
railroad commission bill, but made no
progress whatever. It Is evident that
the bill is already done for and that Its
further consideration Is a farce.
Senator Cunningham Introduced tfie
following bills into the senate:
To ratify the incorporation of Steiner
Bros.
To amend the act establishing the city
court of Birmingham, so as not to extend
the term Into the months of July, August
and September.
To amend the act fixing the time for
holding the circuit courts in the counties
of the Tenth Judicial circuit so as not to
extend the terms into the months of July,
August and September.
For the relief of Mack Holmes, of Jef
ferson.
To Incorporate the Mutual Fire Insur
ance company, of Birmingham.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The following bills were Introduced and
referred:
H. 1058, By Mr. Dove—To change the
name of Martha B. Hill, of Autauga
county. Revision of laws.
H. 1059; By Mr. Stewart (by request)—
To further regulate the trials of misde
meanors in Blount county. Judiciary.
H. 1060, Also (by request)—To appro
priate the sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000) to the Columbia college at Ban
gor. Appropriations.
H. 1061, Also (by request)—To authorize
the commissioners of Blount county to
build a Jail at Bangor. Ways and means.
H. 1062, By Mr. Lloyd—To amend an
act to amend subdivision 28 of section
629 of the code of Alabama. Ways and
means.
H. 1063, By Mr. Coleman—To amend
section two (2) of an act to establish a
new charter for the town of Piedmont,
Ala., approved Feb. 2, 1891. Corporations.
H. 1064, Also (by request)—To regulate
and provide for service on cross bills
and answers in the nature of cross bills,
filed In courts of equity, in this state.
Judiciary.
H. 1065, By Mr. Simmons—To repeal an
act entitled an act to require the county
commissioners of Conecuh county to pro
cure printed blank forms of certain con
veyances and printed blank record books
In conformity therewith, for the use of
and distribution by the ifrobate Judge of
said county and to regulate the fees for
recording the same. Judiciary.
II. 1066, By Mr. Cofer—To amend sec
tion 2 of an act entitled' an act to estab
lish a new charter for the city of Cull
man, Ala., approved Dec. 12, 1890. Re
vision of laws.
H. 1067, By Mr. Klllebrew—To relieve
James B. Daniel of the disabilities of
non-age. Judiciary.
H. 1068, Also—To relieve Ida <3. Daniel
of the disabilities of non-age. Judiciary.
H. 1069, By Mr. Beeson—To establish
a separate school district to be known as
the Union school district in Etowah
county. Ala. Education.
H. 1070, By Mr. Oast (by request)—To
prohibit the sale or giving away or other
wise disposing of alcoholic, spirituous,
vinous or malt liquors within the bounds
of Frankfort beat, No. 3, in Franklin
countv. Ala. Temperance.
H. 1071. By Mr. Oreene—To amend an
act entitled an act to fix the terms for
holding the circuit count the several
counties of the ’Creitth Jidieial district.
Revision. rtUiws.
H. 1072. Also—To amend section 4 of an
act entitled an act to amend an act en
titled an act to establish the city court
of Birmingham. Revision of laws.
H. 1073. by Mr. McCollum—To empower
the county commissioners of Limestone
countv to levy and collect a special tax
far the purpose of Improving the pub
lic roads of said county. Public roads
and highways.
H. 1074, by Longshore—To authorize the
board of the mayor and counellmen of the
city of Cnlera to issue bonds of said city
for an amount ndt exceeding ten thous
and ($10,600) dollars for the purpose of
(Coutlmfed on Third Page.)
*
INJUNCTION_OF SECRECY
As to the Arbitration Treaty Still
Holds.
REPORTED TO THE SENATE
In Executive Session, but No Date for Consid
eration Named.
THE NICARAGUAN CANAL BILL
Gets a Blnok Eyo from Senator Vilaa—Ball
road Ticket Scalpers Win a Victory
Large Number of Bills Passed
in the House.
Washington, Feb. 1.—Immediately af
ter the senate convened at noon, Mr.
Sherman moved an executive session,
stating that It would require but a short
time. When the doors were closed he
reported the general treaty of arbitration
as amended Saturday by the committee.
The first of these amendments adds at
the end of the first article the clause:
"But no question which affects the for
eign or domestic policy of either of the
high contracting parties, or the relations
of either with any other state or power,
by treaty or otherwise, shall be subject
to arbitration under this treaty except
by special agreement.”
The second strikes out all reference,
wherever It occurs, to the King of Swe
den and Norway as the umpire, where
the tribunal fallj to agree upon such
umpire.
After the report was made, Mr. Sher
man asked that, inasmuch as the text of
the convention had been made public,
the injunction of secrecy be removed
from the text of the amendments, but
Senator Morgan objected and the request
was denied. No attempt was made to
arrange a time for the consideration of
the treaty, nor was anything said about
debating it in open session.
The doors were re-opened at 12:45 and
legislative business was proceeded with.
Various petitions in favor of the rati
fication of the arbitration treaty were
presented; among them one from New
York Board of Trade, presented by Mr.
Hill, and one from the Connecticut leg
islature, presented by Mr. Platt, (rep. of
Connecticut.)
Senator Chandler'offered a resolution
directing the committee on privileges
and elections to Inquire into the recent
presidential and state election in Dela
ware, and whether that state is in the
enjoyment of a republican form of gov
ernment. Referred to the committee on
privileges and elections.
A message from the president, with a
report from the secretary of state giving
the information called for by a senate
resolution as to the arrest and condemna
tion in Cuba of Julie Sangullly, an Ameri
can citizen, was laid before the senate
and referred to the committee on for
eign relations.
The two resolutions which were offered
last week by Mr. Allen, (pop. of Ne
braska), looking to the suspension of the
proceedings for the Judicial sale of the
Union Pacific railway property, and
which are lying on the vice-president’s
tahle, liable to be taken up for action
In the morning hour, were not taken
up, although Mr. Thurston, (rep. of Ne
braska), who had indicated an intention
to speak upon them, was in the senate
chamber.
The Nicaragua canal’ bill was taken up
and an unsuccessful attempt made to have
a day and hour fixed for a final vote.
The discussion then proceeded on Mr.
Vilas’ motion, submitted last Thursday,
to have the bill recommitted. Mr. Vilas
spoke of the interocea-nic canal project as
0 historic dream, and quoted Senator
Sherman’s statement the other day that
the canal could not be constructed by
any incorporated company, and must be
built, If at all, by the government; and
also that the bill could not possibly pass
the house in the present congress. Mr.
Vilas had not finished his speech, when,
at 5 p. m., thei senate proceeded to ex
ecutive business, adjourning soon after
wards.
IN THE HOUSE.
The first thing the house did today was
to refuse to consider the bill reported by
the committee on interstate and foreign
commerce, to prohibit railroad- ticket
scalping. In the course of the session,
which was devoted to miscellaneous bus
iness, the following bills were passed:
To prohibit the carrying from one state
to another of obscene literature, of ar
ticles designed for indecent or immoral
purposes; giving officers In the volunteer
service of the Untted States the brevet
rank held by them and the right to wean
the uniform of that rank; for the pro
tection of the military parks; providing
that surgeons of soldiers’ home may be
appointed from others than those who
have been disabled In the service of the
United States; extending the authority of
the President to issue medals of honor to
others than officers and enlisted men; to
restore to his former rank in the navy
and place on the retired list Commander
John M. QiTaekenbush; granting to Colo
rado 557 acres ki Fort Lyon reservation
for a state-soldiers’ home; authorizing the
entry of public lands containing petro
leum under the mining laws; directing
the Issue of patents for the located but
unconfirmed lands In Louisiana, 288 tracts
containing about 80,000 acres.
The last hour of the session was da
voted to the eomsldieration in committee
of the whole of the diplomatic and con
sular appropriation bill. It was not con
cluded, when, at 5;20 o’clock, the com
mittee rose and the house adjourned.
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS.
The President sent to the senate today
the following nominations:
(Martin A. Knapp, New York, to be an
interstate commerce commissioner (re
appointment).
■ F. W. Kickbusch, Jr., Wisconsin, con
sul at Stettin, Germany.
SENATOR GEORGE IMPROVING.
Washington, Feb. 1.—Senator George
■has so nearly recovered from his attack of
heart trouble that he is considering the
prospect of returning to his home in Mis
sissippi. He sits up nearly all day now
and is gaining in strength. His physi
cians no longer regard his condition as
serious, and unless a relapse occurs,
which Is not now looked for, he will be
able to be about within a week or the
following (Jays. ' He still remains at
Garfield hhapljal ,,
GAVE SATISFACTION.
Fort Monroe, Va., Feb. 1.—The new
gunboat Wilmington, recently construct
ed at the viewport News ship yards,
made a trial trip under the direction of
her builders this afternoon. She ran
down as far as Cape Henry and gave en
tire satisfaction.
NO HEWS FROM WEYLER
His Whereabouts Keot a State
Secret in Havana.
FIFTEEN BOATS WERE SUNK
By imurgents and Many Spaniards Killed With
Deadly Rifle Shots.
WEYLER’S EXPEDITION WAS ROUTED
Consul General Lee Writes in Reference to
Banguilly to the State Department
and Expresses an Opinion That
He Should Be Released.
Havana, Feb. 1.—There Is no public
news regarding Capt.-Gen. Weyler, and
If the officials at the palace have any
information regarding his movements,
they refuse to divulge It. In fact, his ex
act whereabouts is unknown, and for
some reason it seems to be necessary that
mystery should attach to his move
ments.
Antonio Pordenio Guezman and Frique
Selles Osma were shot at sunrise this
morning at the Cabanas fortress for the
crime of rebellion. Twenty-three prison
ers have been tried by court-martial at
Remedios. Three of them were con
demned to death, five were released, and
the others were sentenced to terms of
imprisonment ranging from six years to
life.
A correspondent sends the details of an
engagement between Gen. Melguize s
command and a body of rebels at La
Trinidad, near Guane, province of Pinar
del Rio. The lighting lasted two hours
and a half.
The Spanish used artillery. No men
tion is made of losses on either side,
though the correspondent states that the
fighting was fierce.
FIFTEEN BOATS SUNK
By Insurgents, Who Used a Cannon 'With
Good Effect—Spanish Loss Heavy.
New York, Feb. 1.—A Key West special
to a morning paper says that another
marine disaster to the Spaniards Ts re
ported* This time the naval department
will not be charged with It, as one of
Gen. Weyler’s own river expeditions was
badly used up.
Fifteen boats are said to have been
sunk, 100 men were reported to have been
killed or missing and the number of
wounded is put as seventy-five.
Hearing that the insurgents had forti
fied some heights near Paez, on the rivet
Cauneo, Santa Clara, province, Gen. Wey
ler sent Col. Serves with 300 men In smalt
boats to capture the place and destroy
After proceeding up the river about
twenty miles- on rounding at sharp bend
a heavy fire was opened on the expedi
tion with rifles and a six-pnnder field
piece. The river there was shallow and
narrow, the channel being near the bank
where the insurgents were.
The fourth shot from the cannon sank
one boat. A moment later another boa,,
was sunk. The Spaniards leaped out of
their boats, waded to land and
th^ insurgents, who were protected by tne
high banks and, the thick bushes. The
Spanish drove the insurgents off, but
could not capture the cannon. Resuming
the journey, the expedition was harassed
at every bend of the river.
A few miles from Paez the Cubans
opened fire with two cannon. Six boats
were quickly sunk, and then the rebel
rifles played havoc with the Spanish sol
diers as they struggled In the water. Four
of the wounded were caught by alliga
tors near shore and dragged under water.
Col. Serves was forced to order a re
treat, which speedily became rout. Hasti
ly the boaids pulled back,, but the boats
pursued, keeping up a constant fire a,nd
sinking more boats. Had not a rein
forcement met the Spanish ten miles from
Cienfuegos, not 100 men would have es
°^3en. Weyler has made no official report
of this disaster.
CONSUL GENERAL LEE
Writes the State Department in Refer
ence to Sangullly.
Washington, Feb. 1.—The president to
day sent to the senate the correspond
ence in the Sangullly case.
Mr. Olney says in his report to the
president:
“It should be added that in view of all
the circumstances in this case and es
pecially of the long imprisonment al
ready suffered by the accused, reports
have been made to the Spanish govern
ment which it is believed will not be
without effect, that the case seems to be
one In which executive clemency may
be reasonably exercised.”
The last communication in the volum
inous correspondence consisting of 316
numbers in a letter from Consul General
Lee, dated Dec. 31, last, in which he
says he visited the Cabana fort and had
a talk with Sangullly, an American citi
zen and formerly a general in the in
surgent army. While a valiant officer in
the previous war, he had taken no part
in this rebellion. “He had,” writes, Mr.
Lee, “so far as I am informed, com
mitted no overt act in that direction, (the
present Insurrection), and was taken
without arms in his hands, whlie taking
bath In his house, Feb. 24, 1895. His
second trial commenced Dec. 21, 1896,
and ended by his being again sentenced
to perpetual imprisonment.
From this second sentence an appeal
has been taken which, whether successful
or not, will greatly lengthen the time he
has already passed In his cell. The law
yer who-defended this prisoner in his
first trial now looks from the bar of a
cell adjoining his In the Cabanas fort, and
I am Informed that the lawyer who man
aged his appeal before the Madrid court
has suffered in consequence thereof, so
that it may be difficult to procure In
Madrid another person, who will consent
to manage for Sangullly the appeal pro
ceedings.
"Only a few days after the arrest of
Sangullly a proclamation was Issued of
fering amnesty to all persons in arms
who would give themselves up. It seems
that this ought to apply to persons who
had been arrested without arms in hand.
Two other Cuban officers of dlntinctlon,
Roman Perez Trujillo and Joso Maria
T.imete Aglruro, were arrested, I am told
at the same time as Sangullly and for the
haine reason, namely because lit was
thought that they would engage in war.
After a short incarceration they were lib
erated.
• “In view of these facts and for the ad
ditional reason that Sangullly has been
in a cell tw“nty-three months, Is not In
good health and U| suffering from old
wounds, I respectfully suggest that the
department bring these facts to the no
tice of the Madrid government and ask
that instructions be wired that he be re
leased from prison on the condition that
he will leave the Island and not return
until the present war has terminated.”
The letter of transmittal signed by
President Cleveland Is entirely formal and
expresses no opinion. It simply responds
to the senate's request by sending the cor
respondence.
DESPITE VIGILANCE
Jamaica Continues to Send Aid to Cuba—
Munition Safely Landed Under Heavy
Fire.
Kingston. Jamaica, Jan. "6.—(Corre
spondence of t'he Southern Associated
Press.)—Although the Cuban revolution
ary junta here, under orders from head
quarters In New York, makes no further
attempts to send off filibustering expedi
tions from Jamaica since the Pearl fias
co, It keeps up constant communication
with the southern coast of Cuba, partic
ularly the orient. This is done by means
of fishing boats, chiefly, but some times
the Cuban couriers come in on open dug
outs, as was the case last week. Dis/
patches are sent hence and received a( N
most weekly, despite the alleged vig!
ance of the police. Medicines, cloth*
and such things are sent along with the
despatches, and pait'riot officers and des
patches come this way. Occasionally the
incomers are caught and placed In quar
antine, but for the most part they are
accompanied by pilots familiar with the
coasts, who put them in under the noses
of the police, and the Cutoain colony in
Kingston swallows them up. There are
now at Port Maria six Cubans undergo
ing quarantine, including an officer, who
may be released In time to catch this mail
for New York. They arrived last week
In an open boat, or rather a hollowed-otit
log, In which they made the ninety-mile
voyage In three days and two nights.
They bean important dispatcher from
Gen. Garciai for Senor Palma, of the New
York Junta.
Since the capture and detention of
these messengers another party has ar
rived who evaded the police and their
dispatches will doubtless be forwarded
today. The news they brought Is of
great Importance, for It tells of the suc
cessful landing on Sunday last of a big
filibustering expedition on the coast of
Santiago province.
The expedition disembarked without
molestation from the Spanish gunboats
which were looking for it—but looked for
It in the wrong place. When landed,
however Its troubles began. The con
voy was met by a body of Spanish
troops that were not looking for it and a
skirmish ensued. The Cuban force suc
ceeded in getting between the troops
and the precious munitions and held their
ground until the train had got Into a
secure position. Then the Cubans fell
back. The troops pursued them hotly,
expecting an easy victory and the cap
ture of the whole outfit, but It was a de
coy retreat which drew the troops Into
an ambush where a much stronger body
of Cubans were lying low. The result
was disastrous, the Spaniards did not
get out of the mess until they had lost
so heavily that the remnants were glad
to retreat and allow the convoy to con
tinue Its march along the interior. The
expedition got into the camp of Garcia
without further trouble. The supplies
received by this expedition will go far
toward equipping the army of the ori
ent for its share In the big struggle be
tween Weyler and Gomez that Is coming
off soon.
The case aga(#S* the Pilot Lanza, who
was recently caught trying to get off
with an armed expedition of which the
junta knew nothing, has resolved Itself
Into a breach of the customs law. He
was Indicted under the foreign enlistment
act, but the attorney general discovered
the same flaw that the United States
court have noted. That Is, that there
can be no technical breach of neutrality
while no state of war officially exists.
The result was that Lanza was fined £20
sterling for attempting to ship goods
without a warrant and he has appealed
the case to the higher courts on the
ground that as the arrest was premature
there is no evidence of the attempt to
ship. The outlook la that he will get oft
with a fine of (5 for a breach of a police
regulation, carrying fire arms without a
license.
CARDINAL GIBBONS
En Route to New Orleans For Rest
Spends a Few Minutes in the
Magic City—In Good Health.
Baltimore, M. D., Feb. 1.— Cardinal
GibbonB started on a ten days’ trip
through the south last night. His ob
jective point Is New Orleans, where he
will be the guest of his brother, John T.
Gibbons. The cardinal’s trip is for rest
andi recreation., He has as his guests
In a private car Rev. W. A. Fletcher,
Rev. John A. Cunningham and Mr. Frank
Murphy. «
Cardinal Gibbons arrived in Birming
ham at 10:15 o’clock last night on board
the southbound Alabama Great South
ern limited train, traveling in a private
car. On arriving In the union depot the
reverend gentleman and his guests got
down from their car and walked up and
down the platform under the union pas
senger shed for a few minutes. The
cardinal Is a fine looking gentleman, and
looks to be about 56 years of age. He
seemed In excellent health. He was en
route to New Orleans.
REV. H. L. MARTIN
Holds a Series of Meetings at the South
Side Baptist Church—Large Au
diences Greet Him.
Rev. H. L. Martin, of Ozark, Is holding
a series of meetings at the Southslde
Baptist church aind Is being greeted by
large and attentive audiences.
Mr. Martin Is young in his chosen call
ing, but Is a scholarly and able gentle
man, and 'his sermons are Interesting to
a marked degree. He will hold services
every afternoon at 3 and night at 7
o’clock.
He will be.in Rev. P. T. Rale’s study at
the church every day from 0 to 10 o’clock,
when he will be pleased to meet all who
desire to converse with him.
ANOTHER OF THE ELECT. .
Des Moines, 7a., Feb. 1.—Mr. J. S. Wil
son arrived In Ames, la., early this morn
ing, after having, been to Canton, O.,
where he conferred with President-elect
McKinley. He was communicated with
over the long distance telephone and
said: "I have accepted the portfolio of
agriculture In Mr. McKinley’s cabinet.”
WANT A RECEIVER.
Richmond, Va., Feb. 1.—Application
has been made In the chancery court for
a receiver for the Gallego mills. Messrs.
T. Emmett Seaton and B. T. Crump, are
the petitioners, and represent the Rich
ard Grant company, of New York. The
petition wUl be heard Wednesday next.
STRUCK A JIRDEN ROCK
The Brooklyn While Attempting
to Escape the Ice
MET WITH AN ACCIDENT
Which Will Necessitate Her Going in the Dock
For Extensive Repairs.
N _
Jj*
HEP TAIN WANTS AN INVESTIGATION
■ -
7 _o^Accident Was Similar to That Enooun
tored By the Delaware, Another of •
g Uncle Sam’s War Vessels-Bids
Hade for Bepair Work.
Washington, Feb. 1.—Secietary Herbert
has made arrangements to go to Charles
ton on the 17th inst., and spend two days
whHe Admiral Bunce's fleet is blockading
that port. Secretary Herbert has re
ceived the following report from Capt.
Cooke:
“U. S. S. Brooklyn, Marcus Hook,
‘•Delaware County, Pa.. Jan. 30. 1897.
"Deai- Sir: The Brooklyn anchored off
League Island, and was dangerously be
set by ice. I had been quite anxious lest
the ship be carried ashore by floes that
ware getting heavier and heavier. Upon
discovering the throttle valve chamber
to be out of order yesterday at noon I
determined it was best to put the ship in
a safer position, if one could be found.
I learned upon consultation with Capt.
Sargent, of Crump's ship yard, that a
safe berth could be had at that yard.
I decided at once to reccommend to Com
modore Howell that the ship with her
engines and assisted by tugs should go tq
Cramp’s as soon as possible. Commo
dore Howell approved of my recom
mendation.
‘‘I made arrangements with the tugs
and pilots of the Red Star line to take
me through the ice to Cramp's yard and
moor me there today. Also sent for the
Philadelphia city Ice boat No. 1, to break
•the ice around the ship and In the chan
nel and through the horseshoe.
‘‘Three, tugs arrived near the ship be
tween 10 and 11 a. nr. The fourth tug
was wedged In the ice at the horseshoe
and did not arrive until we reached Mar
cus Hock. The ice. boat No. 1 broke the
thicker ice around the ship, where we
had been wedged since the flood tide
of the night before, heading down stream.
I weighed anchor and with our own en
gineer and the assistance of the tugs in
breaking the Ice tried in vain to turn the
•Ship. Finding I could not do so, my best
resource seemed to be to attempt to get
out of th:e. river. The pilot, an experi
enced and apparently intelligent man,
said the tide was favorable, and he ad
vised strongly that I go to'Marcus Hook
and tie up at the Ice piers, and thus be
ready to go on a favorable tide on down
the river.
“On being convinced that was my best
course, I determined to go, taking a
second pilot to take the ranges, desir
ing to use every safeguard that could
be secured. The ship steamed readily
through the ice and handled perfectly.
I was about to congratulate myself upon
the success of the whole movement, she
struck while passing ''Schooner Ledge."
and while she was on the range of the
best water.
"I had the assurance from the navi
gating officer. Lieut. McCrea, and myself
also kept the range.
‘‘The grounding of the ship was imper
ceptibly felt and appeared like passing
over loose stones. It was soon reported
that the double bottom compartments
under the fire rooms and the forward en
gine rooms were full of water, leaking
through the manhole plates and rivets
in some places into she bilges and for
ward magazine which have been readily
pumped out and kept free.
“This is a most deplorable accident,
and one that has fallen like a pall upon
the officers and crew thoroughly inter
ested in the ship, her welfare and her
cargo. From all the facts at present
within my knowledge, I feel that the ac
cident came from no neglect of precau
tion or Judgment on my part.
"Pilot Wall holds a regular United
States license as pilot, and Insists that he1
had got the best range and cannot ac
count for the disaster, and is entirely
sustained in this opinion by Pilot Ben
nett. Recent blastings at this ledge,
which I understand has been going on,
may have left some loose rock not be
fore in the channel.
"At the time of passing this ledge, the
tide had dropped not more than one foot
below high water, as determined by the
watermarks on the stone Ice piers, where
we are now moored at Marcus Hook.
“This Elhip will have to return as soon
as the river is free of ice and tides will
permit, to League Island, discharge all
her weights and go into the dock.
"I request a court of inquiry to inves
tigate and report.
"Very respectfully,
“F. A. COOK,
“Captain United States Navy Command
ing."
The desired court will be promptly or
dered.
The accident to the Brooklyn Is so simi
lar to that which injured the Columbia
in the Delaware river three years ago
that naval officers believe the same ob
struction caused the damage in each In
stance. The Columbia went down the
river in May, 1894, but not until August
following was the discovery made that
her bottom plates had been badly scarred
and dented, necessitating $10,000 worth of
repairs in the League Island dock. A
court of inquiry exonerated the officers,
as it was shown that they ue-'d every
precaution, and there is no doubt at the
navy department that the court which
will Investigate the Brooklyn's misfor
tune will he unable to attach any blame
upon Capt. Cook and his officials.
Lewis Nixon reached the navy depart
ment this afternoon with an otter from
the Cramps to make good the damage to
the Brooklyn at the League Island yard
as soon as the vessel can be docked there
under the same terms that the Columbia
was repaired by them at the same place.
The latest disaster has again started the
controversy In.the navy over the advisa
bility of maintaining the League Island
yard, which reDeated accidents have
demonstrated -to be difficult of access for
heavy ships and a strong effort will be
made to close the yard or have congress
dredge the channel to an adequate depth..
NEEDS A NEW CAPITOL.
Jackson, Miss.. Feb. 1.—The demand
for a new capitol building broke out
afresh today, when It was known that the
rains of yesterday had simply deluged
the several rooms of the present struct
ure. The floors and carpets were all wet
and ten foot sections of plastering had
fallen In every direction. The roof Is so
rotten and patched that further repair*
Is throwing awav money.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
t v r^*
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1897. NUMBER 14
THE CRYING NEED OF THE
> £ '
i • - __ /
The People Demand a Constitutional
Convention.
FORWARD WE MUST MARCH
Briefs From Many Counsellors Be
fore the Bar of the People.
OPINIONS WHICH HAVE WEIGHT
The State Has Advanced and the Old Constitution
Has Served Its Purpose—Interests of the
People Make a New One Abso
lutely Necessary.
• .
As the readers of the State Herald
know, this Journal has, for some time,
been the advocate of a convention to
frame a new constitution for Alabama.
A bill providing for the submission of
the question of convention or no conven
tion to the people and for the election of
delegates has been Introduced Into the
house of representatives by the Hon.
Samuel C. Jenkins, of Wilcox county,
and Into the senate by the Hon. W. P.
Hogue, of Perry. The Jenkins bill has
been reported favorably by the judiciary
committee of the house, is now on the
, calendar, and will come up for passage
during the present week. The senate
bill has gone to the committee on privi
leges and elections, and from it a favora
ble report Is confidently expected. No
more important question, for the future
welfare of the state, will, in the opinion
of the State Herald, occupy the time and1
attention of the general assembly at
this session. Our readers will recall that
in October last, the Industrial and Com
mercial association of Alabama, a non
partisan and non-political body, held a
meeting in Birmingham, at which as
sembled representatives of the various
commercial and industrial associations
of the state. Papers were there read,
and addresses delivered, which set forth
the urgent need of the state for changes
in its organic law, which changes could,
in the opinion of those present, be pro
cured only by the calling of a convention,
since, under the requirements of the
present constitution, it seemed well nigh
Impossible to alter that instrument by
proposing separate amendments. A com
mittee raised to consider the proposition
reported in favor of a new constitution,
and that report was adopted, with but
one dissenting vote. With a view to for
warding the work, the association ap
pointed another committee to press the
matter upon the people and the legisla
ture, it being necessary to procure the
passage of a bill, before the people could
have an opportunity to express their
will at the polls. As the association is a
non-political organization, the committee
was appointed without regard to the po
litical views of the members, and, as a
result, a strong committee, composed of
representative business and professional
men, was named. Naturally, the presi
dent of the association, the Hon. H. L.
McKee, was made, by virtue of his of
fice, chairman. The other members are
as follows: S. D. Weakley, lawyer, of
Birmingham, vice-chairman of the full
committee and chairman of a sub-com
mittee styled the executive committee;
Hon. J. C. Compton, ex-president of the
senate and lawyer, of Selma; James E.
Webb, Esq., lawys*, of Birmingham;
Hon. W. J. Wood, ex-senator, ex-probate
judge and lawyer, of Florence; W. F.
Vandiver, merchant, of Montgomery;
Samuel Ullman, president of board of
education, and Dr. J. H. Phillips, super
intendent of public schools, of Birming
ham; Hon. Erwin Craighead, editor of
Mobile Register, Mobile; Hon. H. C.
Tompkins, ex-chairman of Btate demo
cratic committee, ex-attorney general
and lawyer, of Montgomery; Hon. John
B. Knox, chairman of state democratic
committee, and lawyer, of Anniston;
Hon. W. C. Jemison, mayor of Tusca
loosa; Hon. F. M. Hight, mayor of An
niston; Hon. J. Asa Rountree, president
Birmingham State Herald of Birming
ham; Hon. R. A. Mitchell, mayor of Gads
den; Hon. David D. Shelby, lawyer, of
Huntsville; Mr. S. Steiner, banker, of
Birmingham. *
Since its appointment the above com
mittee has devoted itself assiduously to
the duty Imposed upon it, and to its la
bors is largely due the crystallization of
public sentiment of the state in favor of
a new constitution, although It must be
said the strong stand taken by Gov. John
ston in his first message in favor of the
movement has been a powerful factor,
and has contributed much to aid the
work. The message of Gov. Oates also
called attention to some of the defects
and inadequacies of our present organic
law and furnished food for reflection to
the people of the state.
The committee of the above named as
sociation prepared a pamphlet contain
ing the report it adopted, the papers read
and addresses delivered upon the sub
ject and the proceedings of the teachers
of the state, wherein they declared in fa
vor of a new constitution; and this pam
phlet has been widely circulated. In ad
dition to this, the executive committee
has conducted an extensive correspond
ence with Individuals throughout the
state, amd letters received by it indicate
a wonderful unanimity in favor of a new
constitution upon the part of those who
mould and' influence public sentiment.
The State Herald has been permitted to
examine these letters and to give its read
ers excerpts from them, as indicating the
trend of opinion at this time. Our space
Is not available to publish all of the let
ters nor all the writers had to say. The
extracts given below are a fair index to
the hundreds of replies the executive
committee has received in response to
its invitation for an expression of opin
ion upon the advisability of now submit
ting to the people the question of con
vention or no convention. By the cour
tesy of the chatirman of the executive
committee, we today present to our read
ers the sentiments of many well-known
eitixeps of the state, as follows:
J. J. WILLETT, OF ANNISTON.
"A ne-w'constltution is absolutely neces
sary to the growth and prosperity of [hs
state of Alabama. I can conceive of no
good reasons against it. I admit there
are some specious reasons, but these,
when calmly considered, are without
merit. It is absurd for the people of Ala
bama to contihue to live under the con
stitution of 1875, adopted when we had
about one-half the population we now
have, and before there was any indus
trial development whatever in Alabama,
Bind, too, when we firmly expected the
carpet-bag and ecalawag element of the
state to regain possession, of the state the
very next year, and with that fear we
attempted to throw around the state as
many restrictions and retrenchments as
possible Bind hamper thlB disreputable
element In the administration ol the
state's affairs. As we lawyers would say,
‘the reason of the rule having failed, the
rule should fall,’ and the fear of carpet
bag domination having passed away, the
constitution of 1875 should pass away,
because It was framed' with that fear.
If I can serve you ini this matter, com
mand me. I am with you heart and
soul.”
J. W. TOMLINSON, BIRMINGHAM.
“ I favor the calling of a constitutional
convention at this time."
J. W. BUSH, BIRMINGHAM.
"I am heartily In favor of a constitu
tional convention. There are a number
of good reasons why there should be
changes In our organic law, quite a
number cX. whioh Were pointed out In an
address before the Commercial club of
this city by the chairman of your ex
ecutive committee."
J. E. RICHARDSON AND C. E. HAM
ILTON; GREENVILLE.
"In our Judgment, the present consti
tution is not suited to the needs of the
people of Alabama, and its tendency is to
retard' our civilisation, and to prevent
Alabama havinjr that proeperity which
she would have under a different consti
tution. It it our Judgment that our peo
pie are in favor of a constitutional con-1
vention.”
A. O. LANE, BIRMINGHAM.
"I am heartily in favor of a constitu
tional convention, and aim ready to do
anything in my power to further the
movement. It seems to me that a new
constitution is essential to the growth
and progress of Alabama.”
S. W. JOHN, BIRMINGHAM.
"I favor the holding of a constitutional
convention for many reasons. The two
reasons which are of most importance, in
my judgment, are, first, a reformation of
our judicial system, and, second, we need,
and must have, a reformation of our
whole system of elections.”
J. W. INZER, ASHVILLE.
"I am in favor of a constitutional con
vention, and of a new constitution for
the state of Alabama. There are many
objectionable features in my opinion to
our present constitution, and while I
have some fears aB to the result of a
constitutional convention at this time,
they are not sufficient to make me op
pose it.”
WILLIAM RICHARDSON. HUNTS
VILLE.
“Heretofore, I have opposed the calling
of a constitutional convention. But I
confess that the strong and valid reasons
that influenced my Judgment in the past
are overshadowed now by the imperative
demands for a reformation In our exist
ing organic law. I favor the calling of
the convention, and am glad that your
Commercial association has taken the
lead in this important matter.”
R. H. PEARSON, BIRMINGHAM.
"I am very much in favor of calling a
constitutional convention at this session
of the legislature, and I will do all I can
to aid you in your purpose."
LAWRENCE COOPER, HUNTSVILLE.
"I am heartily in favor of the move
ment suggested, looking to a new con- j
rtltution for the state. While I would j
move with great caution in matters of
such moment, yet I feel like the throttle
to the engine could be safely pulled wide
open without danger of a collision.”
R. W. WALKER, HUNTSVILLE.
"I favor action at this time. Hereto
fore, when the question has been sug
gested, I have thought that because of
the unusqal political commotion prevail
ing, postponement of action was ad
visable, though I was fully convinced
that there should be a revision of our
state constitution as soon as the task
could be undertaken, under favorable
conditions. It appears to me that the
conditions have very materially im
proved. I do not think we can confident
ly look forward to a time when the white
people of the state will be less divided
on questions of domestic concern than
they are now. It does not seem to me
that the work of re framing the constitu
tion, if undertaken in the near future,
is likely to be unduly disturbed or marred
by political excitement or partisan ani
mosity. A dispassionate consideration of
the questions involved is what is to be
desired. It seems that that may as well
be secured now as in the future.”
W. S. WHITE, STATE AUDITOR.
"I am heartily In favor of a constitu
tional convention. I am ready and anx
ious to lend my every effort to you in
securing the same. My reasons are too
numerous to mention in a short letter.
Go ahead with the work, and call on me
when you need me.”
DAVID T. BLAKELY, MONTGOMERY.
“I am now, and have been for several
years, In favor of holding a constitutional
convention, and think certain material
changes in our constitution are very de
sirable.”
W. F. HOGUE, MARION.
"Although there are some Just founda
tions for fears that the changes in the
organic law Dy a convention, should one
be held, would prove more detrimental
than beneficial, yet, believing as I do that
the suffrage question ..overshadows all
others, and that by a convention it can
be so provided for, as to better provide
for the welfare and best interest of the
people, I favor calling the convention,
and shall so vote.”
H. D. CLAYTON, CLAYTON.
"Without giving the reasons at length
for my conclusion, I beg to say that in
my opinion the present constitution needs
to be changed in many particulars. But
it seems to be impossible to adopt any
amendments to it. I-, therefore, am in
favor of having a constitutional conven
tion and a new flbnStitution.”
O. W. UNDERWOOD, BfRMINGHAM.
"I will say that I am heartily in favor
of the legislature calling a constitutional
convention. I will be glad to do anything
in my power to assist in securing a con
stitutional convention at an early day.”
R. F. LICSON. ? MONTGOMERY.
“In reply to your.-favor of recent date
requesting. tt\t expression--of am opinion
from me as td whether I am In favor of
calling a constitutional convention, I
have to say that I am in favor of the
calling of such a convention.”
ORMOND SOMERVILLE, TUSCA
LOOSA.
“I beg to say that I think the demand
for a new constitution is imperatively
pressing, and to such a degree that with
out it substantial progress is Impossible.
No intelligent patriot can oppose it.”
D. P. BESTOR, MOBILE.
"In answer to your letter of the 21st
Inst. I beg leave to state-that I am in fa
vor of a Constitutional cbnvention.”
STEWVART BROOKS, MOBILE.
"I heartily desire to setf'arrangements
made for. a new constitution by the pres
ent legislature. It seems to me that
changes in circumstances have brought
us to a position where the -present con
stitution Is a positive incubus on the
state and its people. I In my Judgment a
reformat*1®®'®* the tax system alone
■would,be worth more to us than the cost
of a dosen-eonventions. I am not a
‘reformer,’ but I heartily favor a policy
of keeping,abreast wltitth\tlmes."
HARRY PILLAN#| MOBILE.
"I do not Understand how any man who
hoa ever Uved through or read the his
tory of reconstruction, and who can ap
preciate the menace under which we al
ways lived in the existing state of things,
can for one moment hesitate upon this
question. As an Alabamian I want to
see a convention called and a new con
stitution adopted, because the present
constitution has a multitude of weak
nesses which it Inherited from its par
ents, the constitution of 1867. The mem
bers of the convention that framed the
one we live under, did not know how
far they would be supported 4r their
work, and hence were overcautious in the
work of reform.”
H. AUSTILL, MOBILE.
“In short, by consent, I am in favor of
a constitutional convention. The pros
perity and growth of our state and mu
nicipalities is much hampered by limita
tions in our presnet constitution. I favor
a. change.”
FIELDING VAUGHAN, MOBILE.
"I favor the calling of the constitutional
convention as soon as possible.”
S. P. GAILLARD, MOBILE.
“I am heartily In favor of a constitu
tional convention. Many good reasons
could be urged in its favor, but I would
mention as first, the necessity of some
restrictions to the right to vote, thereby
removing the necessity for political dis
honesty, and the danger of negro domi
nation. This one change would be worth
all the expense of holding the conven
tion.”
C. J. TORREY, MOBILE.
"I beg to say that I earnestly hope that
a constitutional convention will be called
without any delay. I think such a body
Could and would frame a constitution
satisfactory to the people and highly ad
vantageous to the material progress and
welfare of the state; one that would be
a great improvement on the present con
stitution, and much better suited to the
needs of the people and the present con
dition of affairs.”
HENRY HANAW, MOBILE.
“I have given the matter some consid
eration, and I believe that the time is
ripe for a revised constitution. The old
. one has many defects and these become
: more apparent daily. The sooner we
can provide for our people a new con
stitution, the earlier the benefit will be
felt. I, therefore, go on record as fa
voring a constitutional convention.”
SAMUEL B. BROWN, MOBILE.
"I am heartily in favor of calling a
constitutional convention for the purpose
of framing a new constitution for the
state.”
L. H. FAITH, MOBILE.
,"I am heartily in favor of the move
ment on foot to have a new constitution
for the state of Alabama. There are
several changes which ought, in my Judg
ment. to be made, but I have not the time,
nor do I deem it necessary, to undertake
to enumerate all the alterations which
I think should be made.”
JOHN M’ALPINE, MOBILE.
“Replying to yours of Jan. 19, 1897, ask
ing for an expression of my opinion, with
regard to the propriety of calling a con
stitutional convention at this time, I
would say that I think the time is ripe
and has been ripe for quite a while. I
am heartily in favor of calling the con
vention.”
JAMES W. GRAY, MOBILE.
"I am heartily in favor of a constitu
tional convention.”
NEIL M’CARRON, MOBILE.
"Let us have a new constitution.”
J. C. RICH AND W. H. MTNTOSH, MO
BILE.
“We are heartily in favor of a constitu
tional convention, and have been for sev
eral years past earnest advocates of the
movement. The reasons in favor of a
new constitution are so many and so ap
parent that we deem it unnecessary to
state them in detail. Suffice it to say,
that every important public reform, now
under dlscussioti, is dependent upon the
making of a new constitution, and as
citizens who desire the welfare of their
state, we stand ready to do anything in
our power to aid you and others who are
actively prosecuting thlB important
work.”
F. J. INGE, MOBILE.
"I most heartily favor the calling of a
constitutional convention, and trust that
you will be successful ini securing the
same.1*
S. T. PRINCE, MOBILE.
“I most heartily favor a new consti
tution for this state, and' it will afford
me great pleasure to aid you in any way,
in the furtherance of the desired object.
I have not the time at this moment to
write you at length, but every citizen of
this state desirous of good government
and progress should favor the calling of
a constitutional convention. I hope the
legislature will not hesitate at this ses
sion to act upon what I believe to be
In accordance with the wishes of a very
large majority of the best citizens of the
state.” —
W. S. LEWIS, MOBILE.
*'I actively supported the calling of a
constitutional convention whe na mem
ber of the legislature in 1888-89; I have
been In favor of it ever since then, and
arrf now heartily in favor of calling a
constitutional convention at this time.
I believe that our. development as a
state, and our industrial and commercial
gTowth and prosperity as al people, in the
near future, depend largely upon the
formation of a new constitution for the
state of Alabama. We have outlived
fjie present.”
R T. ERWIN, MOBILE.
“I do not wish, at the present time, to
go further than express my approval of
the movement."
R. A. M’CLELLAN, ATHENS.
"All I have time to tell you now is, that
1 am in favor of a constitutional conven
tion to revise the constitution of the
state. My reasons for It may be given
hereafter."
T. C. M’CLELLAN, ATHENS.
“I am unqualifiedly In favor Of the1
convention. I can conceive of no publlo
necessity that 1* greater at this time.
You can be assured that Limestone will
not lag behind In the accomplishment of
such a worthy purpose.”
R. W. WALKER, ATHENS.
"I am in hearty sympathy with the
movement for a constitutional conven
tion for this state. It would require too
much space to set out the reasons theie
for."
W. T. SANDERS, ATHENS.
“I favor the calling of a constitutional
convention at this time.”
J. H. MILLER, BIRMINGHAM.
"I believe our state constitution’ could
be greatly improved, and a convention
composed of earnest, Intelligent men
would be abl'e to submit to the people
such a one as we need, and I believe that
all the Interests- of the state would be
thereby greatly advanced.”
C. G. DOSTER AND Z. A. ABNEY,
PRATTVILLE.
"We favor the holding of a constitu
tional convention. It will cost time and
money, but It will be worth more than
it will cost. The public Interests demand
It.”
J. H. SAVAGE, ANNISTON.
“Our state or our progress has so out
grown conditions existing when our last
constitution was adopted that It Is of
Importance and of the greatest necessity
that we have a constitutional conven
tion, that will be a valuable application
to our present and future.”
B. P. BOULDIN, SCOTTSBORO.
“I favor a constitutional convention
for the purpose, among other things, of
improving our school and commercial
system.”
M. E. MILLIGAN, GENEVA.
“I am In hearty sympathy with the
movement to secure a constitutional
convention. Our present constitution Is,
In many respects, antiquated, and wholly
unsulted for an enlightened and constant
ly advancing state."
GEORGE W. TAYLOR, DEMOPOLIS.
"I take pleasure In assuring your com
mittee that I heartily approve the call
for a constitutional convention and a
new constitution. A new constitution Is
not merely desirable and advisable; It Is
a necessity."
W. H. PARKS, TROY.
"I am in hearty accord wi:h all sug
gestions and recommendations favoring
a constitutional convention. There are
many good reasons, to my mind, why this
should bo done. I regard such a project
one of the most important measures to
be called to the attention of our general
assembly and one of the most urgent."
R. GAILLARD, CAMDEN.
"For fifteen years past, or more, 1
have been In favor of a constitutional
convention., in order to rectify the mis
takes made In I87B, and the one doubt I
entertain as to the propriety of our leg
islature providing for such calling is,
that I fear it has been postponed too
long."
JOSEPH M. AND P. W. WHITE, 5MONT
GOMERY.
"We favor a constitutional conven
tion."
JOHN B. WEAKLEY. JR., FLORENCE.
“I am In favor of the movement look
ing to the holding of a constitutional
convention.”
S. R. RATHER, DECATUR.
“There is no question but that the pres
ent organic law is wholly inadequate to
meet the needs of a great and growing
state. I certainly favor submitting the
matter to the people.”
THOS. WILLIAMS, WETUMPKA.
"I am earnestly In favor of the propo
sition. I am greatly at error If It Is not
gravely needed. Our Individual and so
cial safety demand It. Let It come. Our
people are for it.”
A. M. GARBER, TALLADEGA,
“I favor the calling of a constitutional
convention."
S. P. PAINE, TUSKEGEE.
"I fully agree with the reasoning con
tained in the pamphlet accompanying
your letter, and, therefore, favor a con
vention.’
J. B. GRAHAM, TALLADEGA.
"I am heartily in favor of a constitu
tional convention.”
TENNANT LOMAX, MONTGOMERY.
"I am unreservedly in favor of a call
for a constitutional convention by the
present general assembly. I regard it as
of more absolute Importance than any
proposition upon which that body will
be called upon, to act, and can conceive of
no reason why we should not have a
convention.’”
E. W. COLEMAN, JASPER.
“j am in favor of a constitutional con
vention.”
J. J. MORRIS GENEVA.
“I heartily endorse the movement set
on foot by the Commercial and Indus
trial association of Alabama for calling
a constitutional convention. The people
generally, in South Alabama, I think fa
vor the convention.”
BOWLES & RABB, EVERGREEN.
“We favor a constitutional convention,
and hope to be able to send a strong man
to assist in making a new constitution,
should we be so fortunate in having the
privilege granted.”
C. P. ALLMAN, MOULTON.
”1 am In favor of a institutional con
vention, and in my opinion there can be
polled for it in this county about 750 or
800 votes, or almost the strength of the
democratic party.”
AMOS E. GOOODHUE, GADSDEN.
“I heartily favor a new constitution,
and will cheerfully do all in my power In
support of the movement to bring this
about.”
R. L. HARMON, TROY.
"I heartily approve the calling of a con
stitutional convention, and the adoption
of a new constitution for the state. I
think the progress and prosperity of the
people of Alabama can be materially pro
moted by some changes in our present
constitution. I believe that this Is as
good a time for submitting the question
to the people aa we are likely to have
In the future.”
REUBEN CHAPMAN, LIVINGSTON.
“I am In favor of holding such a con
vention. I think the present constitu
tion of the state should be changed In
several particulars.”
H. H. BLACKMAN, OZARK.
"I have to say, unhesitatingly, that I
very much favor the convention, because,
I think there Is sufficient talent In this
state to give birth to an organic law
that will better promote the general wel
fare, peaqe and prosperity of this com
mohwealth than our present constitu
tion.”
ALEX TROY, MONTGOMERY.
“I am very much In favor of calling a
constitutional convention. I favor call
ing It at this time because a new consti
tution is necessary and a more favorable
time Tor calling the convention will never
come, and I am, therefore, opposed to
further delay.”
$
$
A *.. M'EACHIN, TUSCALOOSA.
“1 *rnestly favor the calling of a can
stiti* >nal convention by the legislature
now session, because I believe the pres
ent institution of the state handicaps
ant- ""ibstructa the development of the
country and the progress of the age we
live in. Some of our people fear that a
convention called to revise the constitu
tion of the state might pass hurtful ordi
nances relating to the subjects of suffrage
and taxation, but these apprehensions are
entirely groundless, for the reason that
these matters, of ail others, would be
dealt with by a constitutional conven
tion with profound caution and con
servatism. The views of Gov. Johnston,
in his recent message to the legislature,
on the subject of a constitutional conven
tion. are timely and wise, and should be
read and considered by all classes of
our people, as well as by the members of
the legislature.”
THOS. H. WATTS, MONTGOMERY.
"I am heartily in favor of calling the
convention. There are many provisions
of the present constitution which hamper
industry and retard the development of
the state.”
W. G. M. SIMMONS. CENTRE.
"I am heartily in favor of the move
ment set on foot by your association.
And anything I can do to assist you In
your effort to secure a constitutional con
vention, I will cheerfully do.”
BEN. P. HUNT, HUNTSVILLE. !
“After advocating for the past twelve
years the need and absolute necessity for
a new constitution, it would seem hardly
necessary for me to say I favor it now .
But I do, and will do all In my power to
secure It.”
THOS. R. ROULHAC, SHEFFIELD.
"In my Judgment the necessity for a
constitutional convention and the adop
tion of a new constitution with many
chunges from the present organic law In
this state, is not only apparent, but so
pressing that delay in obtaining them
will be of serious detriment to the people
of the state and their every interest."
EDWIN WILSON. EUTAW.
"I am with you entirely. I belive a big
majority of the white voters of thts coun
ty are of the same.mind. Including the
popultt'ee. I rpgard the matter as one of
the greatest importance to our state and
will do whatever I can for Its success.”
R. C. HUNT, SCOTTSBORO.
“I believe a new constitution would lift
the peotple out of the old furrow and give
them new life. It enlivens the whole)
household to change the furniture In the
dwelling every twenty years at least. I
am with you for a constitutional conven
tion.”
R. H. KNOX, CLANTON. >
“I am heartily In favor of holding a,
constitutional convention. I shall be
pleased to render any assitance I may ba
able in furthering the views of your com-1
mlttee.' v
B. F. WILSON, TALLADEGA.
"I am heartily In favor of the conven
tion. I sincerely trust you and your co
laborers in the movement will be able to
convince the general assembly that the
people of Che state not only desire that
the convention be held, but they demand
It."1
J. N. MILLER, MOBILE.
"I am heartily in favor of the calling
of a convention to frame a new constitu
tion for the state. Many great reasons
exist for it. It is not necessary for me td
state the reasons here. They have been
made manifest by experience and made
public through the press and orators of
thie state. I am fully convinces -♦ the
people of my (Wilcox) county are strong
ly in favor of the movement, and my in
timate acquaintance with the people in
other southern counties of the state en
ables me to say they are of like opin
ion and feeling.”
A. H. CARMICHAEL. TUSCLMBIA.
”1 favor the calling of a constitutional
convention at this time."
C. R. BRICKEN, LUVERNE.
"I express myself emphatically in favor
of a constitutional convention. There is
every good reason why we should have
on?, and none that I can conceive why
we should' not.”
D. S. BETHUNE, UNION SPRINGS.
”1 am In favor of a constitutional con
vention, and the representatives from
Bullock express themselves likewise.’ i
H. L. MARTIN, OZARK.
”1 favor a constitutional convention.”
A. H. ALSTON, CLAYTON.
“I am in favor of a constitutional con
Ve W°D. ATKINSON, EVERGREEN.
"I am heartily In favor of many
changes in our organic law: In fact, I
know that the present constitution is out
of date, obsolete and wholly Inadequate
for our present needs.”
S. D. LOGAN, CENTREVILLE.
“I certainly think we need a constitu
tional convention at this time, and for the
good of the state generally, we should
have It.”
GEORGE C. ALMON AND W. I. BUL
LOCK, RUSSELLVILLE.
“We earnestly and heartily favor a
constitutional convention. It seems to us
that we are bound to have it.”
W. H. KEY, RUSSELLVILLE.
“I am heartily In favor of this move
ment. The time has come in the 'his
tory of the state when It Is Imperatively
necessary to enlarge our legislative lim
its. I believe the Intelligent people of
our county will be in favor of such a
movement.”
A. P. AGEE, ANNISTON.
"I am most heartily In favor of hold
ing a constitutional convention as pro
posed.”
J. L. PETERS, COLUMBIANA.
“I am, and have been for some time,
decidedly In favor of a convention, to
frame a new constitution, and would
urge It In all proper ways I could.”
W. W. SCREWS, MONTGOMERY.
"I now favor the convention, and be
lieve that If prudently conducted, a suc
cessful issue will be the result.”
J. A. BILBRO, GADSDEN.
“I favor a constitutional convention.
So many reforms In the organic law of
our state are needed that time would fail
me In pointing them out.”
G. E. M’GOWAN, ELBA.
“I am In hearty sympathy with any
movement In favor of the calling of a
constitutional convention at this time.
To my mind the old lady has outgrown
her old dress, and is now weeping, suf
fering, for a new one. One, too, that
will not check nor hinder her movements,
growth and progress.”
O. KYLE, DECATUR.
“I favor calling a constitutional conven
tion.”
W. W. QUARLES. SELMA.
“For several years l have regarded the
constitutional convention as the one Issue
parampunt to ail others in Alabama l
have regarded it as the one refuge from
our political troubles, and seeing it as the
lesser one of the evils, I have unhesltatBIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1897. NUMBER 15
AS BIRMINGHAM'S GUESTS
The House Rivers and Harbors
Committee
WERE ROYALLY WELCOMED
Programme of the Committee of Arrangements
.Carried Out In Full.
FURNACES. MINES AND FACTORIES
Dotted Here and There Over the District
Viewed From a Special Train.
Reception at the Commercial Club a Great
Success-Warm Words of Welcome
By Able Speakers—Gratification
at the Outlook For Bene
ficial Results.
They were here yesterday—the rivers
and harbors committee of the house of
representatives. And with them were
others, all of whom were Birmingham's
guests.
That they were warmly received and
royally welcomed is left with them to
say.
They came at the invitation of the
Magic City, and while here were shown
the greatest mineral district in the
world.
The committee of arrangements had
mapped out a plan of procedure for the
day, which was carried out without hitch
or flaw, and it is safe to assert that the
efforts of those gentlemen will not go un
rewarded. .
The coming of the committee to this
city was intended to lie the stepping
stone to a great beneficial future for Bir
mingham, and the assurances given here
and there by the gentlemen comprising
that body of statesmen, into whose hands
have been placed the power of making
or marring the prospects of certain In
tel ests of the United States, are sufficient
to satisfy the most skeptic that much
good will result from their visit.
It only remains to be seen w'hat t'he re
sult will be, but all interested feel that
Birmingham and the entire district will
be materially benefited.
AROUND THE HORN.
Yesterday morning, at 9:45 o’clock, the
rivers and harbors committee and other
guests of the Commercial club left the
city on a special train via the Birming^
ham Mineral on '» visit of inspection of
the wonderful resources of the Birming
ham district.
The committee from the national house
of representatives arrived In the city at
6:35 o’clock yesterday morning and was
met by a delegation from the Commercial
club. After breakfast in the Morris, the
entire party left the city on the special
for a trip around the ’’horn’’ on the Bir
mingham Mineral railroad.
Among those on board, including the
visiting delegation, were the following:
Warren- B. Hooker and wife, of New
York. Congressman Hooker is chairman
of the delegation.
Bingor Hermann, wife, son and daugh
ter, of Oregon.
Walter Reeves and wife, of Illinois.
Charles A. Towns and w ife, of Minne
sota.
Blackburn D. Dorener and wife, of
West Virginia.
A. S. Berry and son, Mr. Shaier Berry,
of Kentucky.
Samuel M. Stevenson, of Michigan.
Richard H. Clarke, of Alabama.
John E. Reyburn, of Pennsylvania.
Thomas E. Burton, of Ohio.
Charles N. Clarke, of Missouri.
Gen. James E. Walker, of Virginia.
D. S. Alexander, congressman-elect
from Buffalo, N. Y.
Henry G. Rask, clerk of the committee.
Harrison A. Walters, sergeant-at-arms.
Melville Gillette, civil engineer.
Mr. W. J. Boles, secretary of the Com
mercial club.
Col. and Mrs. Rufus N. Rhodes, Hon.
F. V. Evans and Miss Addle Evans. Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Jemison, Mr. and Mrs.
T. H. Molton, Mrs. J. C. Henley, Mr. and
Mrs. S. M. Tutwiler, Mr. and Mrs. W. B.
Leedy, Mrs. John Hine, Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. Sewail, of Bessemer; Mrs. Cole, of
Memphis; Hon. J. A. VanHoose, Hon.
O. W. Underwood and Messrs. Henry B.
Gray, H. M. Hansberry, C. H. Nabb, G.
M. Morrow, Thomas Tomlinson, Ben
Moore, H. W. Perry, Reek Woodward,
Eug?ne Enslen, A. T. London, J. H. F.
Moseley, Pacbal Shook, James Bowron,
J. M. Gillespie,D. C. Redington, Erskine
Ramsey, Charles Senn, Nat F. Baxter, of
Louisville; J. B. Dwyer, J. «. Caldwell,
of Louisville; A. M. Shook, Maj. Hand
ley and others.
Before the departure of the special
train a delegation from Bessemer board
ed the train. The Bessemer delegation
was composed of Mr. Jas. H. Hard, chair
man, and Messrs. W. H. H. Judson, C.
H. Spencer, T. O. Smith, L. Hoster, T.
T. Huey, W. Minor. J. T. McEniry and
N. H. Sewail and wife.
At 9:45 o'clock, just as the State Herald
representative boarded the train, the
journey around the horn began. The
train was composed of a regular coach,
the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railway
company’s private car No. 1, and Pull
man sleeper "Hesperia.” Engine No.
404, In charge of Mr. F. E. Blssett, pulled
the special. The train crew was com
posed of Conductor T. M. Young, In a
new uniform, and Flagman John Cosby.
Messrs. E. M. Stollenwerek and Sam
Calloway represented the railroad com
pany.
The train proceeded to Grace's Gap,
where It took a siding and backed up
to Green Springs, where it was 'hoped
■to receive a good view of the city and
surroundings. The heavy fog and smoke
hung over the city and thus prevented an
unobstructed view. After a stop of a
few minutes the tfain proceeded to the
■Worthington mines and a stop of thirty
minutes was made for inspection of the
mines at Ishkooda. Here a general in
spection was made and a local photog
rapher secured several pictures of the
entire party.
At 10 o'clock the special proceeded
through Redding, past the Bessemer city
furnaces und into the yards of the How
ard-Harrisou pipe works. The visiting
delegation were escorted through the
works and the intricacies of pipe mak
ing explained to them.
Between the pipe works and Ensiey
City lunchea were served by the prince
of caterers C. H. Nabb, and the inner
man was as well looked after as it is
possible aboard a train traveling twenty
five miles an hour.
At the Ensiey furnaces, the largest
plant in the south, exclamations of won
der and delight followed each other in
quick succession. A careful survey of
the entire surroundings was mude and
the train proceeded to Thomas, where the
passengers were transferred to dummy I
coaches and taktn^o slope No. t, Pratt
Mines. The mysteries of mother earth
were, In part, revealed to anxious eyes
through a trip into the opening of the
slope.
Necessarily the stops were of short
duration, and the train proceeded to the
nearest complete furnace plant In the
district—Thomas furnaces. A wait of
only a few minutes ensued until the par
ty proceeded through North Birmingham
and Boyles to Dolclto rock quarries. Af
ter a continual tour of.furnace plants,
this served as somewhat ot a diversity to
the visitors and excited quite an amount
of curiosity. A lengthy stay was made at
the quarries, after which the train re
turned to Birmingham at 6:15 p. m.
A most enjoyable trip was had and the
ladles expressed an unusual Interest In
all industries visited.
The ladies, may God bless them, formed
an Important part of the party, and en
livened the party by their sweet presence.
After supper at the Morris a reception
and banquet was held in the Commercial
club rooms.
AT THE COMMERCIAL CLUR.
The reception rooms of the Commer
cial club were filled last night at the
public reception accorded the rivers and
harbors committee. Representative cit
izens In all walks of life were present
to lend aid to the project of slack wn'ler
navigation for Birmingham and this dis-:
ti'ict. •
President M. V. Joseph, ot the Commer
cial club, presided with grace and dignity,
In his opening remarks and speech ot in
troduction President Joseph spoke as fol
lows:
Ladies and Gentlemen.
Tke occasion Is of great moment to
Birmingham. It Is related that Regulus
while urging the conquest of Carthage,
shook from his garments some samples
ot the gifts which nature had so bounti
fully bestowed upon that country, as an
Incentive to his fellow citizens to per
severe In the subjugation of that kingdom
whose riches would then be Rome's.
The natural wealth of the east was the
Incentive to the exploits and expeditions
which resulted In the discovery of this
country; the natural wealth of any coun
try is the pusher-on of Its fortunes. We
have as our guests officially on this hap
py. occasion gentlemen who are the ex
ponents of the commercial sagacity and
judgment of the house of representative
of the United States, and who are also
members of the Important committee on
rivers and harbors.
Through this committee we hope to
come In touch with the great American
house of commons, whereby each member
thereof may be made to feel the import
ance of the project we have in hand to
release to the world the “imprisoned
wealth" of this district, by means of wa
ter communication with nature's high
ways. Bu,t I am intruding on the pre
serves of other appointees. But there
are none who cannot from this suggestion
appreciate the Importance of this occa
sion.
Assuring you gentlemen of the com
mittee, of the lively appreciation the
Birmingham Commercial club entertains
of your presence, I have the honor to in
troduce Hon. F. V. Evans, mayor of Bir
mingham, who will on behalf of the city
of Birmingham extend her welcome to
you.
Mayor Evans followed the president
and welcomed the delegation to our
midst, as follows:
ADDRESS OF WELCOME.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
If we have today opened your eyes to
the natural wealth surrounding our beau
tiful young city; if we have demonstrat
ed to you that nature has stored away
in theBe hills and mountains substances
inviting to the strong arm of industry
and energy, and to the quickening im
pulse of capital, we ask no higher en
dowment at your hands than that you
report the story of your observations
and chant with us praises to the Most
High that God has so wonderfully bless
ed this people and those who come to
dwell among us.
We welcome you here as representative
Americans who love all America—citi
zens not strangers in our midst. We
welcome you to a city which less than
a decade ago was wrapped in her swad
dling clothes, now boasting a population
of more than 50,000 souls. A city not fin
ished, not matured, but strong and rich
in the greatness of her possibilities. We
welcome you to the home of a, people who
ever hail with delight the coming into
their midst of men and women who ap
preciate anything and everything that
speaks of possibilities for present nnd
future American greatness.
True this Is a city of smoke from the
stacks of an hundred Industries, yet a
city of sunshine in a lend of fruits and
flowers; a city of schools and churches;
a eity of culture and refinement—a typi
cal American city.
We beg that you mate yourselves at
home with us and earnestly trust that
when you leave us you will carry with
you pleasing remembrances of your brief
stay In this, the greatest city of the
Great New South.
Again we bid you welcome.
President Joseph, in introducing Mr.
Bowron, said:
In, my opening remarks I useO the
phrase "imprisoned wealth” of the dis
trict, and I may say I used it advisedly,
for the common phrase "hidden wealth”
is not befitting; the natural wealth of the
district being but too apparent and dis
coverable to admit of the use of a term
carrying any element of uncertainty or
speculation. To more effectually release
our imprisoned, lnexhaustable stores of
wealth, some cheap and inexpensive
means of transportation must be provid
ed. Who can best present the necessity
for an outlet to the tide-water for the
transporatlons of the heavy products of
Jefferson county than 'Mr. James Bowron.
treasurer of the Tennessee Coal, Ir'on and
Railroad company, the gentleman whom
I now have the .pleasure to introduce.
MR. BOWRON.
in ms remarks, Mr. James Bowron, the
speaker of the evening, made an eloquent
plea for slack water navigation. Me
showed wherein Birmingham had been
and is competing with the world In the
product of pig iron. With an adequate
open waterway to the gulf the advance
ment of Birmingham would be Incompre
hensible.
CONGRESSMAN HOOKER.
Chairman Hooker, of the rivers and
harbors committee, was called and made
an eloquent and timely speech upon the
relation of the different sections of the
republic to each other. Although this
district, with its waterways, would rival
Pennsylvania, the people of that state
would not be Jealous of our prosperity,
for what benefited one section reacted
to the advancement of all. Chairman
Hooker’s remarks were timely and most
eloquent. He paid a great and deserved
tribute to Hon. Richard H. Clarke, a
member of the committee, who repre
sents the Mobile district In the lower
house of representatives.
The Hon. Richard H. Clarke was called
upon for a speech, but owing to the late
ness of the hour he was only able to
speak words of encouragement to the so
called canal project.
Refreshments were served in the anti
room.
OFF TO TUSCALOOSA.
The following members of the com
mittee lert at 10:15 last night for Tusca
loosa to Inspect the new locks in the War
rior river: Chairman Hooker and Messrs,
Reyburn, Clarke, of Missouri; Berry and
Clarke, of Alabama. The other members
of the delegation leave this morning for
Chattanooga, which will be their last
stopping-place. From Chattanooga they
proceed direct to Washington.
ANOTHEROFWEYLER'SYARNS
Pinar Del Rio Province Ver;
Much Occupied
BY BANDS OF INSURGENTS
Who Succeeded In Blowing Up a Train Killing
Several Soldiers.
PROPOSED CUBAN REFORMS READY£FOR
Christiana'c Signature But Not Wanted By
the Brave Cubans—Dauntless Mak
_fet Mysterious Plying Trip in the
Shades ol the Night.
Key West. Fla., Feb. 3.—Another inci
dent contradicts Weyler’s boasted as1
surance that Pinar del Rio province is
virtually pacified. Monday morning a'
pilot engine with an armored car and
steering a passenger train left San Cris
tobal. Arriving at a culvert at Bacuna
gua, near Face Taco, two dynamite
bombs exploded, wrecking the engine
and car completely. Four civilians were
killed and also the captain of the volun
teers and five soldiers. The engineer,
fireman and eight soldiers were wound
ed. The culvert was entirely destroyed.
It is reported that Weyler, with 12,000
men and twenty-five pieces of artillery,
have started from headquarters at
Crucos, in the direction of the Siguanca
hills, west of Clenfuegos, with the inten
tion of attacking or dislodging Gomez,
who, it is rumored, is encamped in said
hills. No encounter is expected unless
Gomez, aided by a naturally strong po
sition and sufficient forces, thinks it ad
visable to meet the foe, in which case a
fierce engagement will certainly occur.
The proposed Cuban reforms are the
topic of all conversation1. All here agree
—Spaniards and Cubans alike—that the
reforms are humbug. They will surely
make no impresison on the rebels. It is
known on good authority that a person
arriving from Castillo’s rebel camp on a
commission to Havana and now returned
to the field, described the feeling amongst
the Cubans in arms as intense. The
dominnnt spirit is to resist to the end
and accept no compromise with Spain
ilnless in case of absolute independence.
Castillo has 600 men well armed and
fairly well supplied with munitions, and
600 more unarmed.
It appears that Marcos Garcia, commis
sioned by the government to make over
tures to Gomez, fears that his life would
be endangered if he personally presents
the proposals, and has written a letter
to Marquis Ahumada declining the com
mission.
Trains are now running into the su
burbs of the town of Guanabacoa, car
rying armored cars and large armed es
corts.
DAUNTLESS CAUSES ALARM
By Her Mysterious Movements—Gives
Revenue Cutters the Slip.
Jacksonville, Fla., Feb. 3.—C. R. Blkbee,
collector of customs, was very much
worried this morning when he learned
that the famous little steamer Dauntless
had left port Tuesday night, and was sup
posed to have slipped by the warships
and gone to sea. At noon his anxiety
was relieved, for the Dauntless came
steaming into port and tied up at Clark's
wharf.
The steamer was tied up to a dock
Tuesday r.Ight and this niorning she was
gone. When tl|£ news reached Collector
of Customs Bisbee he started out to learn
something about the departure of the
steamer, but there was nothing to learn
except that she had gone down the river.
The collector did not know whether or not
she had an officer of the revenue cutter
BoutWell on board, as the cutter had
also gone down the river.
A telephone message from Fort George,
in response to an Inquiry for news of the
Dauntless, said that nothing had been
seen of the steamer at the mouth of the
river this morning, but it was possible
that she had crossed the bar by daylight
and slipped by the warships. The Bout
well left port at 9 o’clock this morning
and reached the bar at 11:30, but did not
report seeing the Dauntless. The Clyde
line steamer Algonquin arrived off the
bar ait 3 o’clock this morning and came
inside at 6 o’clock and her officers saw
nothing of the Dauntless.
The owner of the Dauntless had ap
plied for permission for the tug to engage
In the towing and wrecking business on
the Florida coast, and last Saturday
made affidavit that the steamer would
not violate the neutrality laws. The affi
davit was forwarded to Washington,
with a similar affidavit of the owners of
the steamer Three Friends, who had ap
plied for permission to go wrecking and
towing. No answer was received from
Washington until Tuesday night, when
Collector Bisbee received a telegram from
the secretary of the treasury, saying that
the affidavits were not satisfactory and
directing him not to allow the vesssl to
go outslde«of the river without an officer
of the revenue cutter on board.
When the collector started to call on
Capt. Kilgore, of the revenue cutter
Boutwell, this morning he found that
the cutter had gone down the river and
th’at the Dauntless had taken time by the
forelock and skipped out. The return of
the alleged filibuster greatly relieved the
mind of the collector.
The steamer Three Friends Is still down
the coast, and has not been heard from.
She has been telegraphed to at Miami to
go up the coast and render any assist
ance possible to the Blscayneif that ves
sel Is really wrecked.
The steamer Dauntless left pprt tonight
for Hypoluxo with an officer of the
revenue cutter Boutwell on board. She
goes to pull off shore the stranded bark
Oh Kim Soon from the Canaries to Fer
nandina, which was beached Saturday
night.
COMES UP TODAY,
«. fc 1 <
Birmingham Police Commission Bill Will
Be Examined by the.Judiciary
Committee—Postponment.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 3-—(Special.)—
The Birmingham J$o0jqe, commission bill
was set for consideration -by-the Judiciary
committee tonight, KUt the night session
of the house delayed the committee as
sembling, and the consideration of the
bill was postponed until tomorrow.
STRUCK FOR BACK PAY.
Lebanon. Ind., Feb. 3.—'The entire force
In the Chicago and Southeastern railway
shop struck yesterday for •eve#’ months’
back pay. Ac a result life entire road
Is tied up. ?■;
<- J *- -W &
MmiJUUL BILL
Encounters a Strong Filibuster
ing Opposition,
TALKING AGAINST TIME
It the Tactics Adopted by Vilas, Who Has Been
Speaking Three Days.
DUBOIS, OF IDAHO, HONORED
Swanson, of Virginia, Despite Strong Op
position, Is Accorded a Seat in Congress
Over Contestant Cornell-Oratorical
Dowers Shown by Both Sides.
Washington, Feb. 3.—The two resolu
tions offered last week by Mr. Allen (pop.
Neb.), looking to the impeding or prevent
ing of the sale of the Union Pacffle rail
road property under a judicial decree of
foreclosure, were today discussed at
much length by Mr. Thurston (rep. Neb.).
He argued in contradiction of Mr. Allen’3
contention—that the right of the at
torney-general to appear for the govern
ment in the foreclosure proceedings was
absolutely beyond question. He also de
clared his belief that the people of the
United States were mot, and never would
be, ready to enter upon government
ownership and operation of railways. Ho
showed that under the law and under
various decisions of the supreme court,
the lien of the government did r.ot cover
the Omaha railroad bridge and ap
proaches, and only applied to the portion
of the Union Pacific road on which sub
sidy bonds were issued; and he favored
strongly the acceptance of the offer of
the syndicate to bid on an upset price of
$40,000,000 for the government’s interest
In the road (including the company's
sinking fund), which would net to the
government about $29,000,000, or some 57.
per cent, of its claim against the com
pany.
The Nicaraguan canal bill was before
the senate for the remainder of the day's
session. Mr. Vilas occupied the floor all
t'he time in the delivery of his third day’s
speech against the bill. The speech was
varied with roll calls to enforce the pres
ence of a quorum, and as it was apparent
that Mr. Vilas was "talking against
time,” the friends of the bill made a
rather feeble effort to "sit it out," but
eventually yielded to the Inevitable and
agreed to an adjournment, which took
place at 5:20 p. m.
An enormous floral structure, consist
ing of two tall columns of white roses,
connected on top by a bar of white chrys
anthemums, on which the word “Honor”
was marked in purple and with a pro
fusion of large red roses scattered along
its base stood upon the desk of Mr. Du
bose (rep. Idaho), who had just returned
from nia unsuccessful campaign for re
elec tUn, and who was warmly welcomed
back aguln by senators from all parties.
IN THE HOUSE.
The discussion of the contested election
'case of George W. Cornett vs. Claude A.
Swanson from the Fifth district of Vir
ginia. occupied nearly the whole of the
day’s session of tf.e house and by an
overwhe lming vote Mr. Swanson's title to
the seat was confirmed by the house.
• The committee on elections No. 3 re
ported that Swanson was entitled to hold
his seat; the minority—Messrs. Thomas.
Walker and Overstreet—hold that neither
Cornett nor Swanson was entitled' to the
seat. Briefly stating the case, Mr. Mc
Call (rep. Mass.), chairman of the com
mittee, said? that Swanson received the
certificate of election upon a return giv
ing him a majority of 2,300 votes. If every
precinct, concerning the vote of which
any testimony whatever was presented
to the committee, were thrown out of thia
count, Mr. Swanson would still have
1,500 majority. There was absolutely no
arithmetic known to intelligent men by
which a different result could be reached.
Tho ground upon which the minority
based their views was that the election
law of Virginia was unconstitutional,
and therefore no valid election was held.
As to this, he desired to say that the
house had voted in two other contests to
seat members elected under that same
law, and that all the members of the
Virginia delegation held their seats by
virtue of the operation of that law.
Mr. Jones (dem. Va.) made an elab
orate argument in support of the com
mittee’s report. Referring to the election
law, he said it had been declared to be
constitutional by the unanimous decision
of the supreme court of the state. And
the committee had concluded that if all
the provisions of the law attacked by the
contestants were invalid or unconstitu
tional, t'hei;e still remained undisturbed
and unaffected enough of the law to make
the election perfectly valid.
Mr. Jones then went into the matter
of the votes In dispute, setting forth the
details, and claimed in confirmation of
Mr. McCall’s statement that the rejection
of all tihe votes attacked by the contest
ants would still give Mr. Swaneon over
1,500 majority.
Mr. Thomas (rep. Mich) presented the
views of the minority. He said that four
questions arose in. consideration of the
case:
1. Sufficiency of the notice of the con
test.
2. The right of the house to Inquire Into
the validity of the election law of Vir
ginia.
3. The constitutionality of the Walton
4. The effect of the operation of that
law upon our system of popular govern
ment.
He devoted most of his time to the
two latter propositions. An analysts of
the Walton law was given by Mr. Thom
as, from which he declared the law to
be «■ perversion of the Australian bal
lot system.
Mr. Thomas asserted that the case In
which the supreme court of Virginia
had decided the law to be constitutional
was a collusive proceeding, and by the
admission of the court itself, the consti
tutionality of the law was immaterial to
the determination of the questions sub
mitted to It—two reasons which made the
Judgment as to the constitutionality of
the law of no binding force or effect.
In conclusion, Mr. Thomas said:
I champion today the cause of 100,000
Virginia voters, bound hand and foot
in polttidal bondage, with no outlook or
hop* for the future. If my contention
shall fail, a' republican form of govern
ment will cease to exist in Virginia. If
a mode of election can be contrived1 that
will embarrass and disqualify one class
’of voters, then It is possible for some mode
of election to be devised that will dis
qualify any class to whom the constitu
tion has extended the right of suffrage..
It is well that this contest should take
place en Virginia soil. Hers, where the
first English settlement In America was
planted; here inhere a Henry sounded the
first notes of liberty; here where the au
) '
I
thor of the declaration of Independence
lived and died; where Washington and
Lee were born, the former to exemplify
love for a nation, and the latter love
for a state—It Is well, I say, that on the
historic soli of the old dominion state
this new, novel and portentlous Issue
In the cause of popular government
should be fought and settled. Perhaps
no state of Inferior rank would have at
tempted this master stroke of ingenuity,
to establish the supremacy of a minority,
nor would I directly or even by Innuendo
disparage this minority. If it were pos
sible for me to believe In the supremacy
of any minority It would be In the Illus
trious descendants of the pioneers after
a civil liberty who have for centuries
made the banks of the James, the Rap
pahanock, the Shenandoah and the Po
tomac sacred to home, to Christianity,
to liberty and to civilization. A secret
ballot is the palladium of civil liberty.
It gives to suffrage at once its glory and
its power. Around it gathers the force
and security of society. Before it opens
the grand prospective of our elective sys
tem.
The Walton law of Virginia is the first
legislative attempt to Invade and over
throw it. Let It be the last.
Mr. Gibson, (rep. of Tennessee), throw
a little excitement into the debate, which
had been progressing even more prosily
than that upon the average election
case. He addressed himself to the re
marks by Mr. McCall in his speech upon
the Yost-Tucker contest, "what the re
publicans of the south now need is to be
treated upon robust principles. They
have been coddled to the point of de
struction." He hurled back the insinua
tion contained in the sneer and con
tumely of the word "coddled.” The re
cent election, Mr. Gibson said, showed
a greater gain of republican votes in
southern states than In any other sec
tion of the country—-41 per cent, on the
average. And the republicans had abso
lutely nothing to sustain them aside from
the devotion to principle. He did not
know what the gentleman (Mr. McCall)
had meant by the words “robust princi
ples.” Probably, judging from his re
cord, he meant to notify southern repub
licans that If one of them came to the
house with a contest for a seat he would)
be incontinently kicked out. "And yet
the truth is,” passionately declared Mi^
Gibson, "that If any man comes here
from that section with an adverse ma
jority of a thousand, it is absolutely true)
that if there had been a fair election and
an honest count his majority would be at
least a thousand,”
Cries of "Oh, no,” from Mr. Livingston
(clem. Ga.); Mr. Meredith (dem. Va.), and
others.
"I repeat that it is absolutely true,"
shouted Mr. Gibson.
"I deny it,” said Mr. Meredith, "and
the gentleman knows it is false.”
"Of course you deny it," Mr. Gibson
fairly yelled, amidst laughter and ap
plause; "its part of your platform.”
'Mr. Gibson explained that he was not
speaking from any interest in the colored
vote, for his district comprised but 1.300
colored voters, and he came here with a
majority of over 18,000.
Mr. Meredith—God help the majority.
(Laughter).
Mr. Gibson asserted, amid applause,
that wherever the white people are In a
majority in the south, the republicans
were in the majority and that It was only
by the operation of peculiar election laws
in black communities that the democrats
were able to secure v^vrles.
If those voters were permitted to cast
their ballots as the constitution intended
they should be, and the ballots honestly
counted, democratic domination would
cease. Republicans of the south, he said
in conclusion, merely asked for justice.
Mr. McCall said that what he meant by
the remark which had given offense was
illustrated by what was desired to be
done in this case—to unseat a democrat
and thereby coddle a republican, al
though it would not ask to seat him.
The law in the ca»> was constitutional
and he thought the house should respect
and be bounded by the decision of the
supreme court of that state on that mat
ter. To do otherwise would, in his opin
ion, be subversive of a republican form of.
government in Virginia and be revolu
tionary in character.
The house refused, 127 to 21, to order
a vote by yeas and nays on the question
and the resolution confirming Mr. Swan
son's right to his seat was agreed to by a
viva voce vote.
At 4:30 p. m. the house adjourned until
tomorrow.
PENSIONS TO ABRIDGE BURNERS.
Washington. Feb. 3.—The house com
mittee on invalid pensions today reported
favorably the bill pensioning at $12 per
month the surviving members and
widows of members of the organization
known during the late war as the “East
Tennessee bridge burners.” This was a
secret military company organized in
1861 for the purpose of burning bridges
to aid Gen. Thomas in occupying certain
portions of Tennessee. Their undertak
ings were perilous, for if captured they
■were not treated as prisoners of war, but
were summarily executed. On this ac
count the special rating of $12 per month
is recommended, regardless of length of
service.
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS.
Washington. Feb. 3.—The president to
dav nominated to be postmasters:
Georgia—Anna Moses, Carrollton.
Texas—Miss Ada L. Davis, Pilot Point;
Susie P. Hyman, Stephenville; Jesse JL.
Reese, Velasco.
HANNA TURNED DOWN.
Columbus. O., Feb. 3.—The friends of
Chairman Mark A. Hanna here admit
today that he will not be appointed by
Governor Bushnell to the senate to suc
ceed Sherman. It is reliably reported
here that Governor Bushnell has decided
to appoint Lieutenant Governor Asa W.
Jones, of Youngstown, to the vacancy,
and that this action is In accordance
with the wishes of the Foraker leaders.
The agreement is said to be that Gen.
Jones will not be a candidate for election
to the full term. This will give oppor
tunity for a battle royal between Gov
ernor Bushnell and' Chairman Hanna
this winter for election to the full term.
JONES UP FOR TRIAL.
Augusta, Ga.. Feb. 3.—The case against
ex-City Sheriff Tom Jones, who came
from Birmingham to stand trial for em
bezzling $19,000 from the city of Augusta,
was begun today. The first count in the
indictment covering the $19,000 was
stricken out on account of error. The
two other counts are for two small spe
cific amounts that greatly reduce the
gravity of the offense and Jones will
probably get off very lightly if he is con
victed at all.
A MISSOURI FEUD.
Southland, Mo., Fei>. 3.—A pitched bat
tle took place six miles north of here yes
terday between thre? members of the
Price family and three of the Partiows.
One of the Price faction was killed in
stantly and two of the Partiows were se
riously wounded. The fight was the re
sult of a family feud, and further trouble
is expected. m
PILOT BOATS COLLIDE.
Fernandina, Fla., Feb. 3.—The schoon
er Hattie Luce, in charge of Pilot Jones
Davis, ran into the pilot boat Francis
Elizabeth while anchored off Black buoy.
No damage was done to the schooner.
The pilot boat was In charge of Robert
Downs. No blame has been attached to
i any one as yet.
STATE GOOD ROAD LEAGUES
Warmly Endorsed By Congres
In a Resolution
WITH COUNTY LEAGUES
—it-f -*
To Aid the League MajfVtes'In the Work Be
fore,^ im,
— c‘—r
SOME VERY ABLE,! ISCUSSIONS MADE
jg —
B y Members Freni fferent States-Perm
anent Organ in ru> n Effected With
50
Gen. Hoy Bills, of Washing
ton, D. C., aa President.
Orlando, Fla., Feb. 3.—The national
good roads congress met at the opera
house at 9 a. m„ and was called to or
der by W. A. White, In the absence of
Dr. Foster. Rev. F. D. Hunt, of San
ford, opened tihe Evasion with prayer.
The following permanent organization
was effected:
Gen. Roy Stone, of Washington, D.
C., president; Col. F. W. Merrln, Plant
City, Fla., vice-president; T. J. Apple •
yard, Sanford, Fla., secretary; W. A.
White, Orlando, Fla., assistant secretary.
The committee on programme reported
In favor of topical discussion, rather than
general, and sugg sted as the first sub
ject for today: "Road Legislation,” the
discussion to be led by H. W. Anderson,
of Virginia.
Second, “Co-operation In Building and
Be st Methods and Material In Construct
ing Roads,” to be led by Gen. Roy Stone.
Third, "The Best Method of Arousing
Public Interest and Educating the Public
Mind On the Subject of Good Roads,” to
be led by W. <M. Bennett, of Lake county,
Florida.
Gen. Stone was introduced by W. H.
Anderson, who, although a very young
man, Is at the head of the good roads
movement In Virginia.
He had evidently given much thought
and study to the subject, and discussed
It In a very able and thorough manner.
He advocated the local building and con
trol of roads, and the levy of a special
state tax for the construction of good
roads, and a county tax and also a dis
trict tax, and a wheel tax, to be remit
ted when wide tires were adopted. These
to be regulated according to the needs
of the community. He favored the issue
of bonds where tihe condition Justified
it. He recommended a state highway
com-ri’.sston, appointive or elective', who
are to have charge of the expenditure of
all moneys for road purposes, andl a
county engineer to superintend the con
struction of reads. He also favored the
employment of state and county convicts
upon the public roads. This statement
was greeted by applause. He recited the
provisions of the California law on that
subject.
Mr. W. M. Anderson offered the follow
ing resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the subject of road leg
islation be referred to the committee on
resolutions, to report as soon as possible,
and that the report be made a special or
der of the next session.
The president announced the appoint
ment of the following committee on res
olutions: . „ _ _
W. D. Chipley, if Pensacola: Dr. w. D.
Anderson, Virginia: W. M. Bennett, Lake
county, Fla.; J. B. T. Tupppr, Wash
ington, D. C„ to which the president, G n.
Roy Stone, was added.
At 11:30 Gen. Roy Stone took up the
second question. ”Co-opera{ion in Build
ing and Best Material for Constructing
Good Roads.” He said the state of Flor
ida had better facilities and a greater
variety of material for constructing good
roads than any state in the union. He
recommended the organization of state
good road associations and of county as
sclations, who are to agitate the question
and educate the people by means of pub
lications and public meetings. He ad
vised the appointment or election of a
state highway commission. The rail
roads were greatlv interested in the sub
ject Olf good roads. Their property would
be doubled in value if a complete system
of good roads could be secured. In Cali
fornia the roads were co-operating with
the people in this matter ami w> re trans
porting road material at the actual cost
of transportation, which was 25 cents per
ton for fifty miles or less. And there
was no question but what the Florida
railroads would do as well or better, as
the cost of transportation Is less than in
California. He thought that in this man
ner good shell roads could be made at
from $200 to $300 per mile in Florida,
where shell could be mined from tha
mounds by steam shovels and loaded di
rect on the cars at a nominal cost.
He said fight hard times with good
roads—wherever good roads were built
prosperity succeeds them.
He favored the local option good roads
law in operation In New Jersey. When
a good road Is started by local initiation.
It grows and continues to grow until ev
ery connection is made good.
The benefit of a good road Is not lim
ited to those whose lands abut upon that
road, but all are benefited who use It,
those who live upon the roads running
Into the main road, and that district wid
ened the farther you go from the city or
Initial point forming a trough with its
apex on 'the city or country town. Every
individual benefited by that road should
contributed towards Its construction.
Gen. Stone was listened to with marked
attention a.nd was applauded at the con
clusion.
Hon. William Bennett read a paper on
■'The Best Methods of Arousing Public
Interest and Educating the Public Mind
In Getting Good Highways, Including Co
operation and Needed Legislation."
The newspapers were named as the
greatest public educators. Their influ
ence should be secured and used unceas
ingly. The co-operation of railroads
should be demanded. The church also
should be enlisted in the cause. He
showed the necessity for and the advant
age of good roads. His speech was short
but directly to the point and was re
ceived with applause.
Professor B. G. Northrop, of Connecti
cut, was introduced and made a short
address in which he eulogized the state
of Florida, Its climate and other attrac
tions, comparing It with California where
he had spent several winters.
The committee on resolutions, through
Col. Chipley, its chairman, reported a
series of resolutions advocating state
laws for good roads and the levying of
taxes upon real and personal property
for such purpose.
Col. Chipley read the following resolu
tion which was adopted:
Whereas, The national good roads con
gress recognizes the Importance of good
roada to the social, business, agricultural,
(Continued on Second rage.)BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1897. NUMBER 16
ANTI-POOL JILL PASSED
Awaits the Governor’s Signature
to Become a Law.
TWO WEEKS’ PAY BILL
Sat Down Upon in the Senate by a Decisive
Vote.
BROWNE, OF TALLADEGA, REPLIES
To an Attack lrom the Advertiser and SooreB
a Hit—This Is Constitutional Con
vention Day and the Out
look Is Favorable.
Montgomery, Feb. 4.—(Special.)—The
house this morning had a busy session
and not much time was consumed by dil
atory motions and personal privilege ex
planations.
After the regular call of committees,
the first business after the call of counties
was Mr. Cameron’s motion to reconsider
the railroad commission bill, which was
lost yesterday. Mr. Waller moved to
lay the motion on the table and called
for ayes and noes and to the surprise of
the friends of the bill Mr. Waller’s mo
tion prevailed by a vote of 56 to 36. This,
it is thought, effectually kills the bill.
Several members made explanations of
their votes, notably Mr. Tlmberlake, of
Jackson, of high hat fame. He said it
had been Intimated or charged that he
had changed his mind on this matter
twice between two suns and that It was
false. That he had always been op
posed to the bill, and no lobbyist had ever
approached him on the subject.
The pool bill was passed and as it has
been a pet measure of Mr. Lipscomb, of
Jefferson, he is in fine humor today.
Messrs. Lipscomb and Green made good
speeches in favor of the bill and fought
all riders with the power of veterans in
legislation. The lobbies and galleries
were full and the ladies had the right of
way in the galleries by order of the
speaker.
The senate killed the two weeks pay bill
by a vote of 21 to 7. Mr. Cunningham
fought hard for it, but the senate could
not agree with him.
Mr. Browne, of Talladega, on a point, of
personal privileges, asked to read an ar
ticle from the Montgomery Advertiser,
which on several occasions had misquot
ed him, and he w'ould make a written re
ply, and if there was an honorable repre
sentative of that paper in the house he
would hand him his written reply and
would like to be correctly reported far one
time.
Mr. Browne’s reply reads as follows:
"Mr. Speaker: Since a few days ago I
indulged In a little pleasantry as to the
Advertiser’s democracy, X have time and
again been misrepresented by that paper.
■What I then said was said as a matter of
pleasantry; but since, today the Adver
tiser seriously questions my democracy,
I now desire to say that the best evidence
of a man’s democracy is the fact of its
being questioned by that paper.
"The conclusion of the Advertiser’s
criticism of me is as follows:
“ ‘He coukWnever have imbibed that
sort of democracy from the Advertiser.’
"In reply, I wish to say that no one
could have imbibed any sort of democ
racy from the Advertiser, since It bolted
the democratic nomination of that grand
est of all democrats, William J. Bryan.
"CECIL BROWNE.”
At the conclusion of this letter. Mr.
Browne was greeted with tremenduous
applause.
The following bills were introduced in
the house at the morning session:
H. 1136. By Mr. Lipscomb—To further
define the powers and duties of the tax
assessor of Jefferson county. Revision
of laws.
H. 1137, By Mr. Greene—To Incorporate
the Southwestern Life and Trust com
pany, and defining its business and pow
ers. Corpora tions*
H. 1138, Also (by request)—To repeal
the charter of the town of Irondale. in
the county of Jefferson. Corporations.
H. 1139. By Mr. NeSmith—To fix the
fees of the sheriffs of Lamar and Jeffer
son counties for feeding prisoners con
fined in the jail under a charge or con
viction of a A Indictable offense. Revision
of laws.
H. 1140, By Mr. McClellan--To relieve
Martha Lesoly Davis, of Limestone coun
ty, of dlsabili'ties of non-age. Revision
of laws.
H. 1141, By Mr. Prowell—To provide
for the election of a supervisor of, and the
improvement of the public roads of Ma
rengo county. Public roads and high
ways.
H. 1142, By Mr. Waller, of Montgomery
—To authorize the Adams Street Baptist
church, of Montgomery, Ala., to borrow
the sum of $1,500. and to secure the pay
ment of the same fly a mortgage upon
the real estate belonging to the said
church. Judiciary.
H. 1129, By Mr. Killebrew—To author
ize and empower D. Thos. Cilley, Jr., to
practice physic within a radius of ten
miles of Wieksburg, and to make charges
for service and collect for same. Local
legislation.
H. 1130, By Mr. Burns—To prevent
stock from running at large in Dallas
county. Agriculture.
H. 1131, By Mr. Espy—To create a sepa
rate school district to he known as Cot
tonwood school district In Henry county
and to define tho boundaries thereof.
Education.
H. 1132. By Mr. Bouldin—To amend
sections 1, 2. B, 7. 9 and 10, and to repeal
section 8 of an act entitled an act to
amend section 1, 2. 4, fi, 6, 7, 8. 14, 17 and
25 of an act entitled an act to establish
the city court of Bridgeport, approved
Feb. 21, 1893, and to extend the jurlsdlcT
♦ton of said court, approved Feb. 18, 1895.
Judiciary.
H. 1133, By Mr. Tlmberlake (by request)
—To create a separate school district In
Jackson county, to be known as section
nut of a part of township 5, range 8, east.
Education.
•H. 1134, By Mr. Waller, of Hale—To In
corporate the town of Newburne, Hale
county. Ala. Corporations.
H. 1143. By Mr. Longshore—To amend
sub-dlvlsion and paragraph 5 of section
26 of an act entiiled an act to establish
a new charter for the city of Calera, ap
proved Feb. 21. 1895. Corporations.
H. 1144, By Mf, Poole--To prelude and
take from the George N. Gilmer school
district, of Lowndes county, sections 15,
16. 17 and 18 of township 12. range 13.
BILLS PASSED HOUSE—AFTERNOON
SESSION.
H. 1030—To prevent stock from run
ning at large In certain portions of Tus
caloosa county.
S. 269 -To authorize the Te’’ p „
Manufacturing Compaq rd dVScontlnue a
ferry across the Tallapoosa river, near
Tallassee, Elmore county, Ala.
H. 644—To change the boundary line of
the counties of Bullock and Pike.
H. 726 (with substitute)—To make ap
propriations for additional compensation
of the clerks In’ the state auditor's office
and for additional clerical assistance
therein.
H. 570—For the relief of A. J. Esllnger,
late tax collector of Madison county.
H. 918 (with petition)—To provide for
holding elections for the adoption of stock
law In Marshall county and to provide for
carrying It Into effect, when It shall be
adopted.
H. 497—To create a separate school dis
trict In portions of Cullman and Mar
shall counties.
H. 801—To create a lien for advance to
make crops In the county of Monroe, and
to provide for enforcing the same.
H. 636 (with amendment)—To regulate
the ex-officio fees of the sheriff of Au
tauga, Bibb, JefferBon and Pickens coun
ties.
H. 828—To create the Mount Zion school
district In Morgan and Lawrence coun
ties. ,
H. 431—Prohibiting the sale, giving
away of any splrltous, vinous or malt
liquors within five miles of any school
house or church of any denomination in
Cherokee county.
The consideration of the Jenkins bill
calling a constitutional convention comes
up in the house tomorrow at 11 o'clock.
The friends of the bill here are quite con
fident that the bill will pass.
SMHATK.
In the senate today, contrary to ex
pectation. a vote on the final passage of
Mr. Abercrombie's general school law
bill was not taken, as he obtained unan
imous consent to postpone It until 3:80
o’clock this afternoon «s the paramount
special order for that heur.
THE MINERS’ WAGE BILL.
The next special order, house bill, 393,
to regulate the payment of wages to min
ers In Jefferson, Blount and Walker coun
ties, was then taken up. The bill is a
substitute for the original bills on the
subject, which had been Introduced sim
ultaneously In the house by Mr. Lipscomb
and Dr. Cunningham In the senate. It
is better known as the semi-monthly pay
days bill, and again as the "anti-com
missary bill.” It provides that mining
corporations and others shall be required
to pay wages to their employes every two
weeks, If demanded, Instead of monthly,
as heretofore, and also that all commis
sary store checks issued shall be com
mercially negotiable and redeemable In
lawful money Instead of In goods.
The bill was finally lost by a vote of
ayes, 21; noes, 7; on a motion to indefi
nitely postpone made by S =■ nator McEl
derry.
Although this Is a local bill, it has a |
political aspect, and It Is alleged that the :
future large vote of the mining and labor
ing population will be lost to the demo
cratic party If they arc not given this J
relief. If passtd, it Is claimed, it would !
also give the regular merchants of the
mineral district an equal chance with
corporation commissaries at the trade of
the miners.
Senator Cunning'ham made a strong,
earnest and eloquent speech In behalf of
the bill, and he held the close attention
of a full senate. He said that thla ques
tion was the dominant issue In his cam
paign for nomination and election to this
senate, and that he stood pledged as a
democrat and as a man to secure tihe
passage of this bill; that he was ready to
die in the ditch, if he could not land the
boat.
BUILDING AND LOAN BILL.
At this Juncture Senator Brewer moved
to reconsider the vote by which the bill
to regulate building and loan associa
tions was passed yesterday and his mo
tion was set for discussion at this after
noon’s session.
Senator Hundley made an argument
against the anti-commission, in reply to
Dr. Cunningham, In that it violated the
rights of private contract, and virtu
ally vitiated the charters which the state
has already granted and guaranteed to
these corporations. He opposed this bill
on principle and did not antagonize It
because it applied to a few counties. If
the bill was right It should cover the
whole state. If it was wrong It should
be defeated.
Senutor Pettus made a strong argu
ment against the bill as contrary to both
the state and to the federal constitu
tions.
The entire afternoon session was con
sumed In the discussion of a motion by
Mr. Brewer to reconsider the vole by
which the bill passed yesterday to regu
late the business efid taxation of build
ing and loan associations In this state.
Mr. Bethune made the motion to lay
Mr. Brewer’s motion on the table, which
was carried.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
By Mr. Cunningham—To repeal the
charter of the town of Irondale, Ala.
Corporations.
Also—To charter the Southwestern Life
and Trust company, of Birmingham. Cor
porations.
By Mr. Buchanan—To regulate passen
ger fares on chartered railroads in this
state. This bill fixes first-class passen
ger fares at 2 cents, and one and one-:half
cents for second-class, and requires all
railroad city ticket offices to be kept open
at least thirty minutes before the depart
ure of all trains. Any corporation vio
lating this law is declared guilty of ex
tortion and shall be fined not less than
$25, and not more than $190 for each of
fence. Commerce and common carriers.
By Mr. Sayre—To authorize the Adams
street Baptist church, Montgomery, to
borrow $1,500 by mortgage on said
church’s real estate. Judiciary.
AN OPERATION PERFORMED.
Physicians Find It Necessary to Work
Upon the Eyes of Senator
Harris.
Washington, Feb. 4.—Senator Harris, of
Tennessee, who has been quite ill in this
city for some time, had an operation per
formed last night upon one of his eyes,
which has given him great relief.
The operation had no particular tech
nical name, but consisted in the removal
of part of the diseased tissue from the
outer corner of the left eye. A second op
eration of a similar nature will have to
be performed later on, but lit Is not
thought necessary at present. Whether
the senator will lose the sight entirely
of that eye the oculist could not say, de
clining to discuss the matter, but it is
probable that this will prove to be the
case, as It has been discovered that the
eye has been defective for two years
and gradually losing Its power of vision.
A SELMA FAILURE.
Selma, Ala., Feb. 4.—Maas & Schwarts,
cotton commission merchants, and S.
Maas & Co., kindred firms, doing a whole
sale grocery business, made an assign
ment this morning, naming H. S. Smith,
as assignee, Liabilities, $.300,000. The
creditors are New York banks, who re
discounted paper for the defunct Com
mercial bank of Selma, the failure of
which necessitated the assignment. As
sets not given.
A FRIGirfFuT MORTALITY.
BoIr.ijay, Feb. 4.—The official returns of
lint health authorities show that up to to
[ day there have been 6,098 cases of the
plague and 3,811 deaths from the disease
» in the city.
AN INTERESTING SUBJECT
In the Senate Was the Selling of
Liquor
WITHIN THE CAPITOL
Hill Denounced the Measure as Silly, Unwise
and Unnecessary.
SURVIVORS OF THE WAR OF 1812
Will Have a Deserved Increase of Pension—
Vilas* Fourth Day on the Nicaragua Ca
nal Bill and Not Yet Through—Dis
trict of Columbia in the House.
Washington, Feb. 4.—As soon as the
routine morning business was disposed
of in the senate today the home bill
was taken up to ptohibit the sale of intox
icating liquors in the oapitol building.
It had been reported by Mr. Morrill (rep.
Vt.), from the committee on public build
ings and grounds, and Mr. Morrill de
sired Its passage, while declaring that it
was unnecessary and was based on a mis
apprehension in the public mind. Mr.
Sherman (tep. O) took a similar position.
Even though it was based "on false and
foolish grounds," he thought the senate
ought to meet the popular objection and
pass the bill. Mr. Hill (dem. N. Y.) took
a different view of the duty of the sen
ate. He denounced the bill as silly, un
wise and unnecessary, as a weak yielding
to an alleged public sentiment, which re
garded jnurder, robebry and burglary as
minor crimes in comparison witn a disre
gard of prohibition laws, and as vicious
and cowardly. He moved its reference
to the committee on rttles, whose jurisdic
tion extends specifically to all that con
cerns the senate restaurant; that motion
was defeated—yeas, 27; nays, 30.
At the close of the morning hour the
bill went over without action. It will
probably be taken up for action tomor
row.
The bill introduced a few days ago
by Mr. Mills (dem. Tex.), to increase the
pensions of the ourvivors of the war of
1812 from $12 to $30 a month, was reported
favorably from the committee on pen
sions by Mr. Gallingeri who said that
there were only twelve surviving pen
sioners of the war, and that their ages
ranged from 90 to 104. The bill was
passed.
The next question that awakened inter
est was the conference report on the im
migration bill. The discussion upon that
was short, however, as Mr. Lodge (rep.
Mass.) having charge of it, recognized
the justice of the objections made to it
by Mr. Hill and other senators in regard
to shutting out the Ignorant wife of an
immigrant, while the huband might pass
the reading and writing test. Mr. Lodge
himself made the mo>tion that the confer
ence report be disagreed to, and a new
conference ordered, and that motion was
agreed to without objection.
While it was pending Mr. Carter (rep.
Mont.) remonstrated against the provis
ion intended to exclude Canadian work
men, as it would justify the Dominion of
Canada in adopting drastic measures
against the ten thousand American min
ers who found constant work and good
wages in the Kootenay country in Brit
ish Columbia.
The Nicaraguan canal bill was taken up
and the remainder of the day’s session
was occupied by Mr. Vilas in opposition
to it, this being the fourth day of his
speech.
He insisted that if the Nicaraguan
canal is ever c.onstrueted it would have
to be neutralized, as the Suez canal was.
It should have for its sponsors, control
lers and constructors of the great nations,
of the earth, whose commerce would pass
though it. It was the duty of the
United States not to declare absolutely
all the laws and methods which should
govern the project, but to proffer the
other nations the open hand of fair con
ference, to invite their reasonable sug
gestions and to unite with them In the
reasonable provisions for its construc
tion and maintenance.
The first duty of the United States was
to have an adequate and careful survey
of all the available routes and to have a
plan prepared. The next step should be
to confer with Great Britain. In accord
ance with treaty stipulations, with Ger
many and with France and to establish
the canal on such a foundation as that
peace would bless it forever, as the great
agency of oommeree swelling around the
globe.
Without concluding his speech Mr. Vi
las yielded for a motion to proceed to ex
ecutive business, and at 6 p. m. the senate
adjourned until tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Consideration of the bill making ap
propriations for the expenses of the Dis
trict of Columbia for the year ending
June 30, 1898, engaged the attention of
the house today to the exclusion of al
most all other business, and at the ad
journment it was still the unfinished
business.
The further conference asked by the
senate upon the immigration bill was
agreed to, and Messrs. Danford (rep. O.),
Wilson (dem. S. C ), and Bartholdt (rep.
Mo.), were reappointed conferees.
At 5:10 the house adjourned until to
morrow.
FIRST OF ITS KIND.
Chancellor Conn, of Mississippi, Renders
a Decision In a "Promoter’s Li
ability” Case.
Jackson, Miss., Feb. 4.—ChancellorConn
decided an Interesting case today, and
one Involving In this state for the first
time the liability of "promoters” of an
enterprise.
The suit was styled "Columbian Climb
ing company vs. W. S. Cook," and grew
out of the refusal of Cook to turn over
commissions he had earned Individually
to the treasury of the company, of which
he waH a member. Cook organized the
Joint stock company, and then sold the
right to sell a patent stump lifter In ten
states, his commissions from the patent
being $4,500. The chancellor holds that
he must turn It Into the company’s treas
ury. The case was appealed.
^DEATHS RECORD.
REV. J. A. BROOKS.'
Memphis, Tenn., Feb. 4.—Rev. J. A.
Brooks, a well-known divine of the Chris
tian church, and prohibition!** candidate
for the vlce-nrfslflsncy fri.1888, died here
last night of hefcrt fallur*. Irk- 4826 Mr.
Brooks was (Sailed to the London (Eng
land) Christian Tabernacle, he returned
from London recently, having resigned
bis charge there on account of Jrad health.
POLICE COMMISSION BILL
Receives an Adverse Report by a
Vote of 7 to 5.
ROBT. WARNOCK CALLED FOR
By the Senate Committee, but the Request
Was Refused
AND THE> LEFT THE ROOM
Bepresentatire Green Opposed the Bill and
Messrs. Lowe and Stanley De
fended It—There Will Be
Minority Report.
Montgomery Feb. 4.—(Special.)—The
judiciary committees of the senate and
house .iret In joint session tonight to con
sider the Birmingham police commission
subject.
Addresses were made in favor of the
abolition of the board by Messrs. Lowe
and Stanley, of Birmingham, and for the
maintenance of the commission by Hon.
Dan Greene, of Birmingham.
The senate committee asked that Mr.
Robert Warnock, of Birmingham, be also
heard, but there was< objection, and the
senate committee, composed of Senators
Pettus, Smith, of Mobile, and Boykin
walked out.
The committee voted to sustain the
commission by a vote of 7 to 5.
There will be a minority report.
STILL UNLOADING.
Brooklyn Not Yet Sufficiently Lightened
to Be Taken From Her Present Posi
tion—A Well-Manned Vessel.
Chester, Pa., Feb. 4.—The stevedores
worked all night unloading the coal from
the damaged cruiser Brooklyn at Marcus
Hook. A big hole has been made In the
500 tons, which will be the quantity taken
out. Operations on the magazine were
suspended at nightfall, but they were
resumed early this morning by tine ship’s
crew, and about fifty tons of aimimuni
tion have been removed. It is probable
that the vessel will be able to leave her
anchorage on Sunday, provided there Is
no freezing weather in the meantime.
The unloading of the ship is going on un
der the most favorable circumstances;
the weather Is mild and the river Is free
from Ice on the Pennsylvania side, and
the barges Into which the coal is loaded
have no trouble in making the trip to
League Island navy yard, where* the
Brooklyn Will be docked.
A diver made another descent today for
the purpose of examining the ship’s bot
tom. The reports are made directly to
Capt. Cook, and he eays no Information
will be given out until he has made his
official report to the secretary of the
navy. This will be made in a few days.
Capt. Cook had a long conversation to
day with Thomas Lick, the engineer In
charge of the anchorage lodge operations,
and received'valuable information about
the shoals. It is pretty well established
now that on Saturday when the cruiser
struck there was not half a tide, as a
heavy northwest wind kept the tide back,
and Instead of a five-foot rise at high
water there were only two feet. The
ehoal was dangerous at any point for a
ship of the draft of the Brooklyn, 24t4
feet. Capt. Cook, as well as Lieut. Mc
Crea, the navigator, and the two pilots,
kept the course, and If the ledge was
struck, it was not the upper end, but the
lower, and where the blasting operations
have lately been conducted. The state
ment that the cruiser struck a boulder
thrown up by the heavy blasts have Btlr
red up the contractors, who have visited
the ledge with a view of examining the
bottom to see If the theory can be borne
out.
Capt. Cook haw not left the Brooklyn
since the accident. He says it will be a
pity If the ship shall be taken out of conv
misglon and the officers and crew trans
ferred to other vessels, as he doubts if
there Is any battleship In the world so
well manned. The opinion gathered from
him is that the cruiser is badly damaged
and will be In the dry dock for pome. time.
VISITORS AT CANTON.
Bill Stevens, of Anniston, Among the
Number Who Called Upon the Elect—
Hanna Keeps the Reps Guessing.
Canton, O., Feb. 4.—The Indications now
are that the present Intentions of M. A.
Hanna will occupy the cabinet •guessers
the rest of this week. It Is rumored
here by many of Mr. Hanna’s Cleveland
friends who have visited Canton within
the last thirty-four hours that he may
decide to accept the position of postmas
ter general. The most generally accepted
opinion Is that Mr. Hanna thinks he will
not be appointed to the senate by Gov.
Bushnell, though the rumor that Gov.
Bushnell has decided to appoint Lieut.
Gov. Jones to fill the seait In the United
States senate which will be vacated by
John Sherman on the 4th of March, Is
not thought to be wholly reliable. An
earnest efTort on the part of the loyal re
publicans attached to both wings of the
party Ira Ohio Is now being made to con
tinue the harmonious relations which
have existed in the state for the last year
arid a half and It Is by no means certain
that Gov: Bushnell may not at the last
moment appoint Mr. Hanna to the senate,
although up to this time he has in no way
Indicated his willingness to do so.
AVhetherMr. Hanna is appointed to the
senate to All Mr. Sherman’s unexpired
tetm or not, he will be a candidate for
election' for the regular full term before
the legislature which Is to be elected next
fajl and which meets to choose a United
States senator In January next. Many
of Mr. Hanpa/s friends want him to go
IntoTfie cabinet, and MaJ. McKinley has
desired it ever since his election. The
belief that he will be appointed postmas
ter-general is growing h6urly. Mr. Han
na will be here at 1 o’clock tomorrow and
will spend the night, and- it Is more than
lively that he will come to some definite^
conclusion respecting the cabinet, al
though If he awaits the efforts of those
who are trying to arrange matters In the
Intents of party peaces he may not an
nounce his decision for two or three
weeks.
The visit of Gen. Alger to Canton to
day was not fraught with importance.
He came to present the wishes of some
Michigan friends. There was a little talk
about an assistant secretary of war, but
nothing of a definite nature respecting
this important appointment was done.
The visit of Chairman Gowdy, of the
Indiana republican committee, was one
of interest. He spent the day in Canton
and an extended talk with the president
elect. Mr. Gc-wdy says Indiana will be
modest In her demands upon the presi
dent-elect, and when pressed confessed
that he would like to be appointed con
sul-general to Paris.
As a matter of fact applicants for of
fices from Indiana have not been as nu
merous In Canton as from many other
states. There are at least twenty appli
cants for the post of consul general at
Paris, The appointment and acceptance
some time during the night of J. Addison
Porter of the position of private secre
tary to the president puts a stop to fur
lice of private secretary, utzuBbvv Oo I
Heath, of Indiana, who was a good deal
talked of in connection with the office
of private secretary, came here today in
response to a telegram from the presi
dent-elect. Mr. Heath was offered a very
handsome appointment, which he has
long desired and which he accepted this
evening. He applied for the position
several months ago and Maj. McKinley,
who has known him for many years and
who thinks highly of him and of the work
he did In -the campaign, said he -was glad
to be able to give him the appointment he
wanted.
Among Maj. McKinley's collars tonight
were two colored republicans, C. H. Deas.
of South Carolina, and W. J. Stevens, of
Alabama. The name of Dr. Seward
Wdbb. of Shelburno. Vt., has been pre
sented to Maj. McKinlev for considera
tion as a cabinet possibility and was be
ing seriously thought of when, owing to
Illness in his family e.nd business engage
ments, he asked Gen. T, S. Peck to visit
Canton and withdraw his name.
IRON AND STEEL TRADE.
Pittsburg, Pa., Feb. 4.—The American
Manufacturer in its edition tomorrow
will say concerning the iron and steel
trade:
At all points business is still backward,
with both sides of the market still wait
ing for new developments. Chicago re
ports a slight improvement In trade, but
the improvement amounts merely to in
creased inquiries. Buyers show more in
terest in the market and some sellers
demand higher prices on orders for de
livery after July 1. In the New York
market there is a fair amount of pig iron
under contract and the larger mills have
sufficient order.--, for finished material to
keep them fairly busy. Some pretty
good orders for American tin plate have
been placed recently. In the eastern
market prospects are good for a consid
erably increased business in structural.
At Cincinnati there Is a disposition to
buy pig iron shown and better prospects
in the sheet iron trade. In the Cleveland
district, the tin plate mills and wire rod
concerns have booked some fairly large
orders but they were taken »t very low
prices.
WARM WELCOME
Accorded Edward J. Ivory and Attorney
McIntyre on Their Arrival In New
York From England.
New York, Feb. 4.—Edward J. Ivory,
the young Irishman, who was accused by
the Scotland yard detectives with being
In a dynamite conspiracy with P. J. Ty
nan, the supposed notorious “No. 1,” and
others to destroy life and property in the
British kingdom and whose trial in Lon
don two weeks ago resulted in a fiasco for
the English authorities, arrived here to
day on the steamship Majestic. Accom
panying him were ex-Assistant District
Attorney McIntyre, who went from this
city to assist in Ivory’® defense, and the
three American witnesses in the cases,
James Wynne, Patrick Smith and Patrick
O’Rourke.
•The steamboat Laura M. Starin, with
a crowd of enthusiastic sons of. Ireland
on board, met the big vessel at quaran
tine.
Representatives of the Irish National
ists, the Ancient Order of Hibernians,
the Amnesty Associations, various county
organizations and prominent Irishmen
from Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia and
other cities were on hand to welcome
Ivory.
After the health officer performed his
usual duties of inspection of the Majes
tic, a committee from the steamboat were
permitted aboard and Ivory and his par
ty were transferred to the Laura M.
Starin, a permit for that privilege having
been granted by the collector of the post.
Ivory was given a hearty reception as
soon as he stepped on the deck of the
ijtarin. Speeches were made formally
welcoming the party back to America,
and after handshaking all around, the
steamboat proceeded up the bay to the
city.
Speech making was the order during
the trip to the city. Mr. McIntyre, next
to Ivory, was the hero of the occasion. He
stated that during the Ivory 'trial he was
treated with the greatest courtesy by the
British legal authorities. He was allow
ed to take full charge of the papers re
lating to Ivery's defense. He demanded
a fair nnd impartial trial of his client,
and had no reason to be dissatisfied with
the result. When asked as to whether
there was any truth in the report that
Ivory had been given $50,000 by the Brit
ish authorities, he said: “No; you can
deny that. Ivory neither demanded nor
received a dollar.”
Ivory and party are in the best of
health and spirits.
On landing the party were driven to the
office of the Irish National Alliance, in
the Potter building.
The gathering there was purely In
formal. a number of friends, members
of the alliance, soon gathered about, but
they saw very litt'e of Ivory, as he was
closeted with Mr. Lyman, Gen. Kerwln,
Col. P. G. Cody and- two or three oth
ers. As a result of the conference. Mr.
McIntyre, was directed to look up the
law bearing upon Ivory’s case, and If
sufficient grounds can be found, a claim
for indemnity for false arrest ami impris
onment will be made through the state
department at Washington. Ivory went
up to his place at One Hundred and
Twenty-third street and Lexington ave
nue, where a big crowd was waiting to
give him a rousing welcome home.
AN HEIR IS BORN.
London, Feb. 4.—Lily, Dowager Duchess
of Marlborough, wife of Lord William
Beresford. and formerly 'Mrs. Louis
Hammersley, of New York, gave birth to
a son at 11 o'clock this forenoon, at
Deepdene. Mother and child are doing
well.
CAUGHT IN A SHAFT.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 4.—A special from
I Wonh. Ga.. to the Evening Constitution
says that Charles locket;, a negro con
vict, was killed In a ®aw mill there this
morning. HI* clothing caught on a shaft
and he wna killed almost instantly.
THOSE PERIODICAL STAMPS
For Which Hamilton and Cole
man Were Arrested
CONTINUE A MYSTERY
As to How They Were Obtain* ' -Mid By Whom
Stolen.
7
A. C. TOWNSEND, CO/ pAN'S PARTNER
_‘ o*
Refuses to Talk, 8avJ £ Assert Coleman’
Innocence and t) * the Stamps Are
Valueless and ^fere Gotten Hon
estly—Colenv Admitted to Bail.
Washington, Feb. 4.—The postofflce In
spectors at Washington are still In the
dark concerning the alleged robbery of
periodical stamps by Hamilton F. Cole
man, who was captured In New York
yesterday. This Is the first case of any
Importance that has come directly under
the Washington division for a long time,
and It completely baffles the officials.
They cannot ferret out the source
through which these stamps were ob
tained. They have been in consultation
with Third Assistant Postmaster-General
Craig all morning, and also with A. C.
Townsend, said to be a part net' of Cole
man, but will not divulge any part of
their proceedings.
Fourth Assistant Postmaster-General
Maxwell said this afternoon that the
postofflce officials had so far been un
able to ascertain where the stamp.-: had
been stolen, but would work the matter
out to a satisfactory conclusion. Various
theories wets advanced as to how they
were secured, but proof could not be ob
tained. Some of the alleged stolen stamps
are now under Inspection at the depart
ment.
At his place of business Mr. Townsend
talked very frankly about his connection
with the affair, and - fated that the
stomps which Mr. Coleman had were no!
stamps at all, but proofs of newspaper or
periodical stamps.
"I am not at liberty to say all I know
about this matter at present," said Mr.
Townsind, "but I can say without any
hesitation that the postofflce department
has made a mistake in regard to Mr. Cole
man. I aim satisfied that he had nothing
In his possession that he had not come
honestly by and that he had not a perfect
right to have. I cannot state now where
we got those proofs, but that is what they
are. and it will be found that Mr. Cole
man got them honestly and has a right
to have them. It Is true that those news
paper and periodical stamps are stolen by
burglars, and it is also true that post
masters sell them. But those found cn
Mr. Coleman were not obtained in that
way. They were, as I said before, proofs,
perforated and glued.”
Agitation of the subject has developed
a number of methods by which stamps
can come legitimately into the hands of
collectors. They are found in many
stamp collections, the owners of which
Team now for the first time that there
is a law on the statute books making it a,
misdemeanor for private Individuals to
have them in their possession.
Townsend says Coleman has been a
stamp collector for a long time. There
remains to be explained the quantity of
these stamps nr proofs, as Townsend
alleges them to be. in Coleman's hands,
and the manner of obtaining them. Up
on these points Townsend and Coleman,
are silent and the postofflce people pro
fpss to be ignorant.
There has heretofore been no cloud on
Coleman’s reputation, and his family as
sert that he was called to the lipdside of
his dying father In the Interior of New
York state and his stop In New York was
intended to he only long enough to call
on the New York correspondent of him
self and Mr. Townsend and secure an
unsold consignment.
COI.EMAN GAVE BOND.
New York, Feb. 4.—Hamilton F. Cole
man. who was arrested yesterday for
having Jf.noo worth of government
"periodical” stamps unlawfully In his
possession, today furnished $2,000 cash
bail for his appearance before Commis
sioner Shields for preliminary examina
tion on Wednesday next. He departed at
nnoo to visit his father, who i.: reported
to be dying at Cooperstown. He is ai
nephew of Commissioner of Agriculture
Coleman, of Missouri, who held office be
fore the Incumbent v.as made a cabinet
officer.
SMALL BOY ANFpISTOL.
Result—Another Shot Through the Bow
els— Goodwyn-Brewer Contest Comes
Up at Lowrdesboro Today.
Haynevllle, Ala., Via Lelohatchle. Ala.,
Feb. 4.—(Special.)—Eugene Carson, a 15
year-okl boy, shot Henry Sloan, a play
mate. through the bowels this evening,
seriously wounding him. It was the re
sult of the practice of carrying concealed
pistols.
The Goodwyn-Brewer contest will be
opened by beginning the taking of testi
mony In this county tomorrow at
I.ownesboro, Ala.
Negroes are In a fever of excitement
over an alleged poisoning on the Sailer
place, this county., of one Cabc- Glover, a
good citizen, beliked by both white and
blacks. Particulars will be furnished as
soon as obtained.
A multitude of witnesses, friends and
spectators, as well as attorneys from
other cities, will be in attendance upon
the habeas corpus trial of W. A. Mastin,
Constable Ucdsole and Pearson tomorrow,
three men sent up by Justice Jenkins
from Letohatchie, for burglary of E. M.
Rogers’ store at that place Jan. 11. The
evidence against them Is very strong.
TO WORK ON THE CANAL.
Colon, Feb. 4.—The mission ot Mr.
Mange, director of the Panama Canal
company, to Jamaica for the purpose of
obtaining laborers to work on the canal
has been successful. The men that he
has secured will be paid 11.20 currency per
day, and the government of Jamaica will
receive three pounds sterling for each
laborer as a guarantee that the men will
be returned to Jamaica upon the expira
tion of their contracts. A large number
of Jamaican laborers are expected to ar
rive here shortly.
IN SELF-DEFENSE.
St. Augustine, Fla., Feb. 4.—A. A. Bun
tieil owner of a caw mill la this county,
killed Arthur Jones litis morning. Jones
was a negro employe and was trying to
Jrttt Bunnell, when the latter fired.- V -* • ~ • • *
I STATE HERALD.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY" 6, 1897. NUMBER 17
_ . . _ - -- - - —, — ■>- — , ... - ■■■— .— ■■■■■ — — ■ ■ — ■
A COMPROMISE EFFECTED
In the Birmingham Police Com
mission Matter.
THE MAYOR TO BE ADDED
And the Present Incumbents to Remain Until
Their Terms Expire.
THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN
To Fill Vacancies as They Occur—The Present
Forcrto Remain Intact For Their
Elective Terms.
r _
Gubernatorial Appointments — State Uni
versity Bill Passes After a Heated De
bate-Constitutional Conven
t
tion Called for Tuesday
*>,
Niglit—To Be Made
a Party Measure.
Montgomery. Ala.. Feb. 6.—(Special.)—
The friends and opponents of the present
police commission muddle in Birming
ham met today and after a long consul
tation decided upon -the following com
promise:
Present board of police commissioners
shall hold their present unexpired terms
of office.
The mayor of Birmingham to be added!
to the board.
The successors of the present incum
bents are to be elected by the mayor
and board of aldermen as the incum
bents’ terms of office expire.
The mayor and board of aldermen will
have entire control of appropriations for
the police department.
The present officers and patrolmen
shall not be disturbed during their pres
ent terms unless for cause.
CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
Fifty democrats met in caucus tonight
to take some definite action on the con
stitutional convention matter. The cau
cus was most harmonious and after de
liberate consultation it was decided to
adjourn until Tuesday night, when a
Joint caucus of democrats of the house
and senate will meet and make the con
vention af political issue and push it to a
successful issue.
GUBERNATORIAL APPOINTMENTS.
The governor today named the follow
ing board of control of the Athens ag
ricultural school:
For Bix years—Oseola Kyle and N. M.
Rowe.
For four years—Theodore Westmore
land and David T. Phillips.
For two years—R. B. Mason.
P. C. Stegal, of Dale county, was named
to fill the unexplred term as circuit court
clerk of that county, caused by the
death of Circuit Clerk Thomas.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 5.—(Special.)—
The house had a business move on it
today, and the business was transacted
with dispatch, The university bill had
the right-of-way in general legislation
and created quite a debate. Mr. Stan
sel, of Pickens, who is the oldest mem
ber of the house, and who has been for
years Pickens’ representative In both
branches of the general assembly, is
the author of the bill, and opened the de
bate for the measure in a clear, concise
history of the university and the facts
leading up to the necessity of the bill.
He had spoken but a few minutes when
his voice and strength failed .him and
he was compelled to desist and asked
that Mr. Speaker, of Tuscaloosa, should
have the right to close debate for the bill.
Mr. Robinson, of Mobile, followed Mr.
Stansel in favor of the bill, and made
one of his best efforts in its advocacy.
He claimed the state owed the debt of
$2,000,000, and had for a long time, and
that the university had waited patiently
for relief from the state until now, and
that Jn the name of honesty and fair.deal
ing the state should recognize this’ debt
and pass this bill. That the 2,000 alumni
of the institution were scattered all over
the Country, had made records of which
no Institution should be ashamed, and
that, they now claimed as a matter of
righi their alma mater should be dealt
with'honestly by the state.
.mx. j imuermse, wnu is a general od
jeotor to appropriations of all kinds, was
In favor or education, but thought the
state should first provide for necessaries
before going after luxuries. That the lit
tle dirty, poor children on' the hills of
high Jackson could get no benefit from
this bill. He was effectually answered by
Mr. Heflin In a fine speech.
Mr. Speaker closed the debate for the
blit and it passed by yeas 53, uoes 39, and
Mr. Bouldin, of Jackson, gave notice of
a motion to reconsider.
The constitutional bill Is set as the
special order for Monday, and a caucus
is ordered for tonight at 7 o’clock In the
interest of the bill.
Judge Coleman’s bill for relief passed
the senate and is now In the hands of
the governor
The police commission bill was reported
adversely by the judiciary committee
and a minority report is expected tomor
row, but It is believed will be defeated.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The following bills were introduced In
the lower house at the morning session
todav:
H. 1148, By Mr. Altman—To amend an
act entitled an act to establish the in
ferior court of criminal court of the cltv
of Birmingham, to define its powers and
to provide for the election of a Judge und
the appointment of a clerk thereof, ap
proved Feb. 11, 1895, and to further de
fine the Jurisdiction of said court and
regulate the practice therein, and to de
fine and regulate proceedings on appeal
from said court to the criminal court of
Jefferson county. Jefferson delegation.
H. 1149, Also--To authorize the commis
sioners’ court of Jefferson county to
tranafrr precinct ten In said county frem
the Third to the Fourth commissioner’s
district. Local legislation.
H. 1150, Also—To authorize the com
missioners’ court of Jefferson county to
re-dlstrict the county of Jefferson. Local
legislation.
H. 1151, Also—To authorize the board
of mayor and aldermen of Birmingham
to iieense, regulate, restrain or prohibit
the erection of fruit and confectionery
Stands on or about the sidewalks of said
city. Local* legislation/'
H. 1162, By Mr. Knowles—To require
railroad companies to establish depots in
towns of more than one thousand inhabi
tants, C. and C. B.
H. 1153, By Mr. Heflin—To establish a
separate school district in Chambers
county in this state. Education.
Among the general bills Introduced in
the house were the following:
By Mr. Heflin (by request—To provide
for the appointment of an electric medi
cal board and to define their power and
regulate the same.
By Mr. Cofer—To regulate the salaries
of the solicitors of the various circuits of
the state of Alabama.
Also—To repeal an act entitled jgn act
to provide for the more efficient assess
ment and collection of taxes. This re
peals the tax commission law approve#'
a few days ago by the governor.
H. 1154. by Mr. Palmer—For the relief
of I>. W. Penn, ex-sheriff of Winston
county. Local legislation.
H. 1156, by Mr. Cleiments—To amend
section 3 of an act entitled an act to au
thorize the commlslsoneis court of Tus
caloosa county to establish districts in
which stock may be prevented from run
ning at large, so as to require a majority
of the land owners or free holders of
the entire beat in whfch the proposed'
district is situated, instead of the ma
jority of those of the proposed district
alone. Agriculture.
H. 1156, by 'Mr. Lavender—To provide
for the better working of the public roads
In beats 10 and 11, Bibb county. Public
roads and highways.
H. 1157, by Mr. Heflin—To establish a
separate school district in Chambers
county, in this state. Education.
H. 1158, Also (by request)—To provide
for the appointment of an eclectic medi
cal board and to define their power and
regulate the same. Public health.
H. 1159. by Mr. Cofer—To regulate the
examination of the allowances and ex
penditures of the commlsisoners’ court or
board of revenue of Cullman county.
Revision of laws.
M. llou, Also—to amend an aui iu piu
vide a system of water works for the city
of Cullman; to issue bonds for said pur
pose, and to create a board of water
works comrrdsisoners, to manage
maintain and control the said water
works, approved Fe*b. 21, 1893. Revision
of laws.
H. 1161, Also—To regulate the salaries
of the solicitors of the circuit court of
the various circuits of the state of Ala
bama. Judiciary.
H. 1162, Also—To repeal an act entitled
an act to provide for the more efficient
assessment and collection of taxes in the
state of Alabama, approved Feb. 2, 1897.
Judiciary.
H. 1163, By Mr. Townsend—To relieve
Wm. H. Still, a minor of Pike county, of
the disabilities of non-age. Local legis
lation.
H. 1164, By Mr. Longshore—To amend
an act entitled an act to regulate the trial
of misdemeanors In Shelby county, ap
proved Dec. 9, 1896. Judiciary.
H. 1165, By Mr. Yarborough—To regu
late the trials of all cases in the county
court of St. Clair county, and to flx the
solicitor's fees when pleas of guilt are
entered in said couit. Judiciary.
H. 1166, By Mr. Browne, of Talladega—
To amend an act entitled an act to estab
lish a new charter for the city of Calera,
approved Feb. 21. 1893. Judiciary.
HOUSE—AFTERNOON SESSION.
The following bills were acted upon at
the afternoon session of the hoUEe:
H. 1123—To amend sections 1 and 6 of
an act entitled an act to Incorporate the
town of Fort Deposit, In the county of
Lowndes.
H. 1125—To create the office of county
treasurer of Dallas county.
H. 938—To create a separate school dis
trict In the county of Macon to be known
as the Cross Keys high school district.
H. 936—To amend section 1 of an act to
regulate the practice and proceedings In
civil cases in the circuit courts of Col
bert and Lauderdale counties In this rftate
and in the supreme court on appeals from
judgment rendered In such cases, ap
proved Feb. 18. 1895.
H. 935—To fix the time of holding the
circuit court in Marlon county in this
state and regulate the proceedings in
such court.
H. 504—To reduce the corporate limits
of the town of Carrolton In Pickens
county.
H. 666—For the relief of Lula Morris, of
Lauderdale county.
S. 1038—To amend the charter of the
city of Birmingham, so as to change and
establish the time for holding elections
for mayor and aldermen irr said city;
to alter, define and flx the term of office
of the present mayor and aldermen of
such city; and the mayor and aldermen
hereafter to be elected; and to provide for
the drawing of lots to determine which
of the present aldermen of said etty shall
hold for the short tenm and the long
term, respectively.
H. 976—To authorize the board cf con
trol of the Southeast Alabama Agricul
tural Experiment station and school to
sell and convey the lot and school build
ing thereon, In the town of Abbeville, In
Henry county, and to expend the pro
ceeds thereof on the new school building
now being erected in said town, or for
the Improvement of said experiment sta
tion.
H. 811—To prohibit the sale, giving
away or otherwise disposing of alcoholic,
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, Intox
icating bitters, wines, or fruits preserved
in such Intoxicants, wthin five mles of
the court house of the city of Oneonta,
Ala., and to repeal all laws In conflict
with the sa.me.
The house adjourned until 10 o’clock to
morrow, and there will be no night ses
sion on account of a democratic caucus to
consider the constitutional convention in
the lower house tonight.
SENATE.
In the senate today Senator Abercrom
bie’s general educational bill, which has
been the subject 6f much discussion and
a deluge of amendments, again struck a
a nag this morning. Several times this bill
has been on the very verge of a final
vole, when it has received a set-back.
This morning, after'It had been amended
until Its best friends would hardly rec
ognize It a© the original measure, The sec
retary began Its third reading for its
passage, when Senator Buchanan delayed
it again bv interposing a motion that 100
copies of the bill as amended should be
printed and Its further consideration
postponed until 10:30 a. m. next Tuesday.
Senator Kilpatrick supported Senator
Buchanan’s motion, and said that there
was too much red tape about the origi
nal bill, and he doubted that any sena
tor on the floor, except its author, fully
understood the provision© of the bill, since
it had been mangled by amendments.
Senator Nolen thought the bill unwise,
arbitrary and obnoxious, generally: so
much so that he moved to have the coun
ty of Coosa excepted from the operations
of the bill. -Senator Abercrombie warned
him that the effect of his motion would
he to deprive Coosa county from any pub
lic school appropriation cf money by the
state. He replied that rather than sub
mit to this law Coosa would rather do
without any appropriation. Coosa and
Mobile counties were excepted by a vote
of the senate. Mobile county’s schools
already have, the rftate liquor license
there as revenue.
Mr. Buchanan’s motion was adopted,
and the chnnoes of the educational bill
becoming h law appear to be growing
dpubtful, although Senator Abercrombie
is managing It with zeal and ability.
GENEVA PROHIBITION BILL PASSED
The senate Tossed out of Its regular
tcontlnued on Second Page.)
* 4 v **■“«^
A FULL MENTATION
• . ■, ■ • ■ *
The Senate for the First Time m
Nearly a Year
HAS A COMPLETE ROSTER
t
f Richard R. Kenny Recognized from the State
of Delaware.
LIQUOR QUESTION NOT DISPOSED OF
Wholesale Biddanoe of the Calendars of
Private Pensions-Three Contested Con
gressional Cases Beported in Fa
vor of the Bitting Members.
Washington, Feb. 5.—The vacancy
which has existed In .the senate since the
4th of March, 1896, by reason of the fail
ure of the Delaware legislature to elect
a senator from that, state, was Ailed to
day by the admission of Mr. Richard R.
Kenney, whose'credentials in due form,
were presented by Mr. Gray (dem. Del.),
and were accepted as prlma facie evi
dence of his right to the seat. Even Sen
ators Chandler and Hoar recognized Mr.
Kenney’s right to be sworn in and to take
his seat; suggesting, however, the ques
tion of whether the Delaware legislature
which had elected him was a fraudulent
body which would be hereafter presented
to the committee on privileges and elec
tions. Meantime, Mr. Kenney holds th£
seat; and the forty-five states of the
union are now fully represented in the
senate by ninety senators.
The house bill to prohibit the sale of
intoxicating liquors in the capitoi was
not taken up today, Mr. Hill stating that
it could not be disposed of within the
morning hour; but notice was given by
Mr. Morrill that he would move to have
it taken up tomorrow.
Mr. Thurston (rep, Neb.), continued his
speech In opposition to the resolution of
his populist colleague, Mr. Allen, ques
tioning the right of the executive depart
ment to consent to a judicial sale of the
property of the Union Pacific Railroad
company. His argument was to show
that that disposition of the question was
the legal and proper one. He had not
finished his speech when the morning
hour expired.
The Nicaraguan bill was taken up and
speeches In opposition to It were made
by Senators Allen (pop. Neb.); Caffery
(dem. La.).
After some fifty pension bills and some
twenty-five other unobjectionable house
bills were taken from the calendar and
passed, the senate at 6:05 p. m. ad
journed, unfit tomorrow.
in the House.
With a few interruptions the house aps
plied Itself todeiy to the consideration of
the unfinished btislnfess and while thus
engaged disposed of sixty-one private
pension » bill*. Amoiig them were bills
granting pensjonB of $50 a month to the
widow of Gen". E. A. Tyler, to Edwin C.
Spofford. of the Thirty-fifth Massachu
setts infantry, to Huball Gould, of the
Eighth Iowa; Hans Johnson, of the
Twenty-seventh Iowa; to Maj.-Gen.
Julius A. H. Stahel; to the widow of Gen.
Matthew P. TrumbuCl, and of $30 a month
to the widow of the late general and gov
ernor, W. H. Stoneman, of California.
Reports were presented and ordered
printed upon the contested election cases
of Benoit vs. Boatner, from the Fifth
district of Louisiana (the second from
that district this congress); of Hopkins
vs. Kendall from the Tenth Kentucky
district, and of Beattie vs. Price, from the
Third Louisiana district—oil in favor of
the sitting members.
The conference report on the military
appropriation bill was agreed to.
At 3:50 the house took a recess until 8
o’clock, the evening session to be devoted
to private pension bills.
—-o-1—
NOMINATIONS HELD UP.
Presidential Preferences For Postmaster
to a Large Number Still in Hand.
Washington, Feb. 5—For two or three
executive sessions recently the postoffice
committee, of which Mr. Chandler is
acting chairman, has been criticised for
holding up -fipminations. Mr. Chandler
says that in alt cases where the senators
from the state have'been able to agree
or where there has been no injustice done,
the nominee has been reported without
undue delay. '
A count of the nominations show that
there are stlfi with the committee a total
of 185 nominations that have been re
ported and of these, eighty-five are offi
ces that have recently! become presi
dential by .promotion from fourth class
owing to increased receipts of the office.
In almost all of these cases the presi
dent has nominated the incumbent and
republicans nay that If he were again
confirmed the official would be given a
term of eight years which would, they
argue, be unfair. In some cases also the
nominees have been named to succeed
men who have been removed. Among
the nominations held up are those for
the following offices:
South. Carolina—Beaufort.
Virginia—Cape C.barleg, Manasses, Or
ange. ’•1 ' -
Florida—Daytona, St, Petersburg, West
Palm Beach, of Which two have been
raised from fourth class.
Texas—Del Rio, Lancaster, both raised
from fourth class. -.
North'Carolina—Rocky Mount, Lenoir,
Warrenton, Laurinton, and Wilson, of
which three have been raised from fourth
class.
BLAKE] A DISAPPOINTMENT
Insofar as His Opinion on the Manitoba
School Question Is Concerned.
Londop, Feb. 'Tablet, the chief
Catholic organ of Great Britain, owned
and Managed by Cardinal Vaughan, pub
lishes an article today upon the Manitoba
school question In Which It says:
"Hon. Edward Blake’s opinion Is a sad
disappointment. It is ho*W clear that the
best cours^of the Catholic is to support
Premier Laurler in trying to carry nego
tiations with Manitoba to a successful
conclusion."
The Table appointment'
of an apost* Canada, who
might be able'to focus Catholic opinion to
formulate, a Catholic united demand and
to effect a final settlement of the difficul
ty. "' :
«
Syracuse,-N. Y., Felb. 6.—The Syracuse
Manufacturing company went Into the
hands < Liabilltem,
$76,000; 1 e company
manufai :laltles and
the Frot
SIB MICHAEL HICKS BEACH
_j ,
Stirs Up a Large-Sized Hornet’s
Nest.
STRONG ANTI-FRENCH TONE
| -
Noticed In His Remarks As to the Anglo
Egyptian Expedition.
HE ASKED POR 780,000 POUNDS
_ *
To Meet the Expense and Declared Brittany
Would Mot Be Worried By Out
siders—Begret at His Speech
Expressed.
London, Feb. —In the house of com
mons today Sir Michael Hicks Beach,
chancellor of the exchequer, announced
that a further advance of Egyptian
troops would toe made toward Khartoum
next season. As regarded the action of
the Egyptian tribunals, Sir Mlohael Hicks
Beach*bontlnued, Great Britain would
not be worried from her policy when her
mind was made up. He then moved a
resolution granting the sum of £798,000
sterling to meet the total cost of the An
glo-Egyptian expedition to Dongola in
cluding the maintenance of the garrison
at Suakim and elsewhere in the Siudan
and the Indian troops in Egypt which
Great Britain would pay.
The action of the mixed court of ap
peals in upsetting the judgment of the
Egyptian public debt commission in re
gard to setting aside certain Egyptian
funds towards the expense of the Don
gola expedition, he said, was calculated
to prolong British occupation of Egypt,
breat Britain had advanced the money to
pay Egypt’s share of the expenses, leav
ing Great Britain and Egypt to mutually
decide when the sum should be repaid.
John Morley, liberal, said that the re
marks of the chancellor of the exchequer
amounted to a challenge to France and
Russia to take issue with Great Britain
in the latter's Egyptian policy.
In view of the sensitive condition of
Europe at the present time he declared
nothing more rash could be uttered.
Sir Charles Dllke, liberal, denounced
the Egyptian policy of the government.
Sir William Hancourt, the leader of the
opposition, expressed regret at the un
wise language and gratuitous provoca
tion of the powers which characterized
the remarks of Sir Michael Hicks Beach.
Mr. George N. Curzon, under foreign
secretary, sought to minimize the effect
of Sir Michael's language and denied that
It was in any way intended as a menace
of Ifrance.
Mr. Henry M. Stanley, the African ex
plorer, member for North Lambert, said
that Great Britain was only doing in
Egypt what Russia was doing tn Siberia
and France was doing between the Sene
gal and the Niger rivers in Africa.
After some further discussion the reso
lution submitted by Str Michael was
adopted by a vote of 169 to 67.
In the lobby of the house there was
much comment upon the anti-French
tone of Sir Michael Hicks Beach and sur
prise was expressed by a number of mem
bers that he should have spoken as he
did.
The speech was thought to have such
significance that the full text was tele
graphed to Paris this evening.
VERY DIRTY DOINGS
Of an Attorney for the Prosecution In the
O'Malley Case.
Chicago, Feb. 6.—During the trial today
of.Alderman O’Malley and John Sankey,
charged with the murder of Gus Colian
der, Miss Shirley, the stenographer in the
state attorney’s office, who is alleged to
have furnished Attorney Forest, counsel
for O’Malley, with notes taken at a priv
ate examination of state witnesses testi
fied that her notes were correct. Accord
ing to her notes, several of. the state’s
witnesses at the private examination
were unable to identfy O'Malley as be
ing present at the time of the murder.
When these witnesses testified in court,
however, they swore positively that
O'Malley was present and was one of
the leaders in the attack on the polling
booth. State’s Attorney Deneen attacked
the character of Miss Shirley, making ac
cusations of a startling and cruel char
acter. The attorneys for the defense pro
, tested, and Judge Tuley refused to allow
evidence against the moral character of
Miss Shirley to be admitted.
AN EXPLANATION
Offered by the Navy Department In Ref
erence to the Battleship Indiana,
Which. Put Off Hatteras.
n _ j
Washington, Feb. 5.—What may be rep
resented to foreign governments as an
Ignominious failure of one of the crack
vessels of the new navy receives an ex
planation which navy officers of experi
ence regard as -satisfactory. The return
of the battleship Indiana to Hampton
Roads today, after having been at sea
with Admiral Bunco’s squadron, scarcely
twenty-four hours, was due to the same
turrets which got loose In a storm last
fall, when Capt. Evans commanded the
ship in evolutions off Long Island. On
that occasion the big guns projecting
ffom the turrets swung back and forth
across the deck as the ship keeled over
across the deck as the ship keeled over on
Ihfcr beam- ends in the sea, and the great
:est fears were felt that the magnificent
vessel would "turn turtle/’ as the sailors
expressed It, and go down with all hands.
Cast. Evans hove her to and lashed the
guns temporarily, which enabled him to
reich port, and then several months
were spent at the navy yard In trying
td remedy the defect. Capt. Evans was
succeeded In command by Capt. Taylor,
formerly of the war college, and yester
day was Capt. Taylor’s first experience
for some time in an armored ship that
h»s earned a reputation for wallowing
and It Is understood that the long rollers'
following the recent heavy gale made
themselves felt on the ship when the fleet
got off Hatteras. If she had not been re
stricted to squadron formation Capt.
Taylor might have headed his course Into
the seas, but as the New York, with her
high free board and notable stability, was
setting the course, and as the Indiana
' could not safely stay with the fleet, she
was permitted to return. If her turrets
had broken loose, off Hatteras;. tile chip
might have been lost. The nav* Bepart
mentg^ye out the following regarding
the matter this afterpoon:
•The Indiana returned today to Hamp
ton Roads, having made a run with the
squadron. When she went out this time
she had with her a new locking device
for her turrets, lately put on at New York,
and which was Intended to remedy the
trouble she had the last time she put to
sea In heavy weather. This present de
vice has thirty tkres the strength of the
former one. Very properly the officers of
the ship have been cautious and observ
ant as to its workings and she has re
turned to the roads for a further Inspec
tion of It and possible re-adjustment.
Her former trouble was occasioned to
some extent by her rolling In the very
heavy sea which she then encountered,
and It Is possible she again met unusual
ly rough seas. When the Indiana and
Massachusetts were designed they had
on, as is absolutely necessary for them,
'bilge keels, but very unfortunately all
the docks up to the one just completed
at New York were not of sufficient ca
pacity to dock any of these ships with
bilge keels, but anticipating the con
struction and finishing of the dock at
New York, the department some tltne ago
ordered bilge keels to be made ready for
all of these ships, and such keels will
be placed in position as soon as possi
ble.
::Great Britain had a similar experi
ence with her battleships. Before such
keels were put on, the cause of the reso
lution being well known to the profes
sion all over the world.
“The department expects to have the
Indiana again at sea lroa' few days."
M'CULLOUGH'S ESTATE
Has Half a Hundred Claimants From
All Parts of the World.
St. Louis, Feb. 5.—Public Administra
tor Rlnehardson has had filed with him
during the past week claims which go to
show that the late Editor Joseph B. Me
Cullough was one of twenty children,
nine sisters and eleven brothers. These
claims come from allied or real heirs In
Ireland, various sections of the United
States and Canada, number over half a
hundred. The letters are from nieces and
nephews, all showing an Intimate ac
quaintance with the birth and career of
the dead editor, and demand their pro
rata of his fortune.
The estate was in the act of being
wound up and divided between the sister,
living in Brooklyn, N. Y., and a senior
brother in Ireland. The deluge of claim
ants stop matters and the claims have
been ordered investigated. The adminis
trator expects a contest and a number
of the claimants have retained lawyers
to look after their interests.
GOVERNMENT INTERPELLATED
In Regard to Prosecution of Luetzow and
Others for Perjury and Libel.
Berlin, Feb. 5.—In the reichstag today
the Richter radicals Interpellated the
government In regard to the prosecution
of Baron Von Luetzow and others who
were recently convicted of forgery, per
jury and libel and sentenced to various
terms of Imprisonment,
Prince Hohenlohe, imperial chancellor.
In reply declared that the president of the
police, out of whose connection with the
scandals had resulted the arrest of Maj.
Von Tausch, the chjef of the political po
lice, were absolutely necessary despite the
faot that the principal member of the
body had betrayed the confidence re
posed In him.
Freiherr Marschall Von Bleberstein,
minister of foreign affairs, one of the
personages who was libelled by Luetzow
and his associates, and at whose Instiga
tion they were prosecuted, said that he
would act in precisely the sarhe manner
again when political antagonists and per
sonal hatred took the form of calumny
and libel.
It was his belief that In acting as he did
he had served his monarch.
The remarks of Bleberstein were receiv
ed with cheers
TWO FOREIGN MISSIONS.
One of Them Consul General to Paris,
Given Out by McKinley.
Anderson, Ind., Feb. 5.—Before leaving
on a trip south this morning National
Republican Committeeman W. T. Durbin,
who is also a member of the executive
committee, said to a correspondent of
the Southern Associated Press:
"You may announce upon my authority
that Perry S. Heath has been tendered
tjie place of consul general to Paris and
has accepted.
“J. K. Gowdy, chairman of the Inde
pendent republican committee, has been
tendered a first-class foreign mission.
You may give me as authority for this
statement.”
Mr. Durbin visited Canton a few days
ago in company with Senator-elect Fair
banks.
REBELS REPULSED,
Leaving Many Dead and Wounded—
Spanish Losses Small.
Havana, Feb. 5.—Further details of the
operations of Col. Arjona at Juan Criolla.
near Clego de Avila, in the Santa Clara
province, have been received here. The
enemy were found in strong partis and
made stout resistance to the Spanish
troops but were dislodged from their po
sitions by the use of artillery and cavalry
and bayonet charges. The losses of
the troops were one lieutenant and one
private killed, and a major, a surgeon,
a lieutenant and twenty-three privates
wounded. Other engagements are de
tailed in the official reports, in which
the rebels suffered the loss of fifty-two
men killed or wounded and the troops
had about half that number of men
wounded.
WILL HOLD THREE CONVENTIONS.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 5.—Vice-President
Hector D. Lane, of the National Cotton
Growers’ association, was here today in
conference with President Broughton, of
the Georgia association. They were
planning for a more thorough organiza
tion. Col. Lane states that three con
ventions of dotton growers will be held,
one in Waco; Tex.; the second at Mem
phis, and the third In Atlanta. The pur
pose of the conventions will be to reduce
cotton acreage and perfect a system of
correspondence which will keep up with
the acreage and condition of the crop
throughout the season.
DIVIDENDS WITHHELD.
Chicago, Feb. B.—Creditors of the Na
tional Bank of Illinois will get no further
dividends for the present. The West
Chicago park commissioners have se
cured a restraining order to this effect
from Judge Hanecy. The injunction
commands Receiver John K. MeKeon, to
reserve a sum of <318,169, which the park
commissioners claim should be paid from
the bank’s fund' to their credit as trustee.
This is the amount which the commis
sioners say is due from their late treas
urer, Edward S. Dreyer. and the charge
is made that he turned over this amount
to the Insolvent bank.
RHODES TO GO ON THE STAND.
London, Feb. B.—The committee of the
house of commons re-appointed to in
quire into the troubles in South Africa
met today and selected the Hon. William
L. JacKecn. member for North Leeds, as
chairman. It was decided to begin the
taking of evidence on Feb. 16, when Cecil
Rhodes, formerly premier of Cape Colony,
will be called to the wltigss stand.
THE SOUTHERN IRON EXPORT
______ ♦
Within the Past Few Months Is
Being Felt
BY THE EAST AND WEST
Bessemer Pig and firey Forge Have Slightly
Advar at Pittsburg
•S*_
WITH A VaE HOPEFUL FEELTNG
“ ' -s'
.?• -
Marked r C’ ne in Failures—Cold Weather
oftb f *»t Week Had Its Usual Good SB
' 1 Bad Effect—Downward
/
Frioes Checked.
N
New York, Feb. 5.—Bradstreet's tomor
row Will say: General trade, which was
retarded by unfavorable weather a week
ago mis recovered somewhat at Chatta
nooga, Memphis, Birmingham and New
Orleans. While the cold weather cut Into
stocks of heavy goods It delayed the sale
of spring goods. Other relatively favor
able trade reports are from St. Paul, Chi
cago, Minneapolis and St. Louis. At
most centers jobbers report business quiet
or unchanged with no prospect for Im
mediate improvement. The restriction
of the production of cotton good3 has not
strengthened the market or advanced
prices yet. The heavy Increase in sal-s
of wool, 40,000,000 pounds at Boston alone
since Jan. 1 against 24,000,000 pounds last
year is based largely on the expectation
of a higher duty on wool. More woolen
mills have started up and those which
have hit the popular taste in style and
fabric are full of present business. One
of the most unsatisfactory Industrial feat
tures is the lack of demand for iron and
steel, prices of which in the central west
ern states have gotten below nomina'l
quotations. Eastern and western iron
makers are attracted by the expansion of
the southern pig iron export trade within
a few months.
The downward tendency of prices not
ed during the past two or three weeks is
checked in part, there being almost an
equal number of the products and com
modities usually quoted which are higlv r
or lower or unchanged compared with
last week. Among those which have ad
vanced are Havana tobacco, wheat, corn
and oats, paper and refined and crude pe
troleum. Those which are lower Include
rosin, hides, wheat flour, pork, lard, cof
fee and raw sugar. Practically unchanged
quotations are recorded for refined su
gar, rice, tea, lumber, wool, cotton and
print cloths.
The check to the number of business
failures as reported last week appears
again in the total for the current week,
305 throughout the United States as com
pared with 326 last week and 338 In the
same week last year.
DUN'S REPORT.
New York, Feb. 6.—R. G. Dun & Co.,
will say tomorrow: No Important change
In business appears, but the number of
manufacturing establishments starting
much exceeds the number of those stop
lng during the week, and so much that
the curtailment of working time In many:
cotton mills probably does not lessen the
aggregate productive force or amount of
wages paid. There is distinct increase In
orders for woolen goods, some gain In
the silk manufacture, awaiting condi
tion with gain In one branch of boots and1
shoes, and Indications of better things
coming in the iron and steel manufacture*
Cotton fell to 7Vic after the agreement to
close Fall River and other print cloth
works became known, but received the
quotation of a week ago, 7.31 cents with
out further news. Spinning takings have
been so small this year those of northern
mills about 400,000 bales less than in 1894
-95, that the admitted narrowness of de
mand for goods has at present considera
ble weight. It appears that foreign trade
is also somewhat restricted by narrow
ness of demand, sales of wool have been:
smaller than in other recent weeks, and
yet are far in excess of the consump
tion of all mills for a week, If all were
fully employed. At the three chief mar
kets the aggregate for the week has beem
13,566.700 pounds.
There has been only a slight -stiffening
In prices, but more foreign wool will be
taken and stored, it Is believed. If west
ern holders continue to demand higher
prices.
Prices of Bessemer pig and grey forge
at Pittsburg have slightly advanced with
a much more hopeful feeling, notwith
standing the comparative narrowness of
the demand for finished products, and in
plates and wire and wire nails there is
much more business, with good prospects.
Billets are quoted at $15.25. with scarcely
any demand at present, and rods at $21,
while No.27 black Sheets are quoted at on
ly 2 c'foits. Reports that 25,000 tons of
steel plate and sheet bars have been ex
ported -4o England, are only indications
of the temporary excess of supply over
demand in this country and areTiot sup
posed to have realized any profit. Yet
It is stated that prices of cast pipe are
from two to three dollars per ton lower
at New York than at Scotch works.
Bars are quoted at the lowest price ever
known at vPhiladelphia without much
Improvement in demand, and steel rails
are still Inactive and unohanged in price,
the railroads waiting for a decline corre
sponding to the fall in billets. But on the
whole the demand for Iron and steel pro
ducts is slowty gaining and a considera
ble proportion of the work is fully em
ployed, though the gain is not yet enough
for those who have taken large stocks of
material or products on speculation. In
the money market there appears no em
barrassment, and the large sale of North
ern Pacific and Oregon Navigation secur
ities to European capitalists has given
additional assurance that balances due
to this country will not be cancelled for
some months to come, so that the point
of possible gold exports Is removed still
farther.
Failures for the aveek haVe been 311 In
the United States, against 325 last year,
and 63 In Canada, against 67 last year.
WANTS THE LEASE ANNULLED.
Raleigh. N. C., Feb. 5.—Gov. Russell
sent to the legislature today a message
transmitting an offer from President
Hoffman, of the Seaboard Air Line, to
lease the North Carolina railroad in the
event of the ninety-nine years' lease to
the Southern railway being annulled.
President Hoffman offers to pay $400,000
a year for the road. The governor
strongly recommends legislation for the
annulment of the Southern's leas*.
DIED OF HIS WOUNDS.
Montgomery, Fe*b. 5.—(Special.)—The
negro, Jenkins, who was shot here yes
terday, an aocount of which appeared In
today's State HeraM, died this afternoob
at 3:20 o'clock.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 ( BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1897.-TEWLVE PAGES. NUMBER 18
VERY MUCH OF A SURPRISE
On Motion to Reconsider the
University Bill.
WENT TO THE WASTE BASKET
Brown’s Bill Exempting Manufacturing En
terprises From Taxation Passed.
MINING BILL RUN INTO A SIDING
Senate Unanimously Indorses Hesolutions
Declaring Independence for Cuba-The
Anti-Trust Bill Passes the House
Without a Dissenting Vote.
(Montgomery, Feb. 6.—(Special.)—To the
great surprise of the legislature, the peo
ple of the state, and especially the friends
of the university bill, it was brought up
on motion to reconsider this morning,
and afterwards, by a vote of 39 to 30,
laid on the table and Indefinitely post
poned. When the bill passed yesterday
by a good majority Its friends thought
that the state had at last recognized an
obligation which It justly owes as trustee
for funds appropriated by It, and which
was placed in the state's keeping by the
United States government for a special
purpose and which had been squandered
by the state. The 2,000 loyal alumnae of
this grand old Institution felt that an
act of simple justice had been done their
alma, mater, and were rejoicing in the
hope that the day was not far distant
when she would be put on her feet again
and take rank among the finest institu
tions of the south.
But the dream will not last long.
When the morning hour came, Mr.
Bouldln, of Jackson, made his motion to
reconsider, and It was carried by a small
majority. The bill will come »p again
in different shape in the nature of a com
promise and may be considered at this
session, but the prospect for relief la
not good.
The bill exempting cotton factories and
manufacturing industries hereafter to be
erected, from taxation for ten years,
passed by 58 yeas to 8 nays.
Mr. Davis, of 'Marlon, made a fine
speech on the bill in its favor, ana snowed
he had made great research In investiga
tion of the measure. He read extracts
from many cotton mill owners, showing
the great advantage such legislation had
brought in the Caroltnas and other states.
Mr. Greene’s anti-trust bill was passed
unanimously, which was a great surprise.
The bill is an exact copy of the Georgia
law and is sweeping in its condemna
tion of trusts and combines, and makes
the violation of any of its provisions
a felony. The Georgia law makes the
penalty a misdemeanor.
The mining bill was side-tracked by
Mr. Cameron, of Sumter, in a very adroit
manner, after the bill was called for,
by a vote yea and nay. When Mr. Cam
eron’s name was called he asked leave
to explain his vote, and this was given
him, and he then called for the reading of
the bill, which Is a long one, and could
not have been read before the hour fixed
for adjournment. He carried his point,
and pending his right to explain, the
hour for adjournment arrived and the
house adjourned with the mining bill
holding right-of-way on Monday.
BIRDS PASSED.
By Brown, of Talladega—To more ef
fectually protect the people against com
binations, conspiracies and agreements
between insurers whereby rates of in
surance are raised or fixed.
To amend an act entitled an act to cre
ate and establish an industrial school for
white girls, in the state of Alabama.
The bill to regulate the mining of coal
in Alabama came up and was ordered to
a third reading, but was delayed by a
parliamentary contest led by Mr. Cam
eron. of Sumter, and will be brought up
Monday.
HOUSE—EVENING SESSION.
Nothing of Interest came up at the
afternoon session of the house until just
before adjournment, when a clipping from
the Clayton Record was sent to the
clerk's desk by Representative Graves,
of Barbour, and read. It poked fun at
Mr. Timberlake, of bloomer fame, be
cause of his attending the performance
of Cissy Fitzgerald, the other night, for
the alleged purpose of “gathering thun
der for his bloomer bill when It comes
up.” On motion of Col. Hibbard, of Mon
roe, the article was ordered spread on
the minutes, Timberlake voting no.
Much merriment was created by the In
cident.
There was no session of the house to
night.
IN THE SENATE.
The senate devoted most of the morn
ing session to passing a large batch of
local bills, only beginning back with its
calendar of Jan. 29.
CUBA LIBRE.
The senate went on record this morn
ing by unanimous vote in favor of the
United States government’s recognizing
the belligerent rights of the heroic Cu
ban patriots. It adopted the house Joint
resolution as a. substitute for that of Sen
ator Buchanan's to the same effect. This
ringing'resolution is as follows:
“Whereas, it is an inherent right in
every tiumun being to be free and inde
pendent, enjoying all the privileges which
a merciful God has given him; and
"Whereas, the American people view
with pleasure the constituting of repub
lics based on pure and solid laws, and
“Whereas, the people of the Island of
Cuba have thrown off the yoke of the
Spanish monarchy and declared Itself a
free republic based on wise laws and re
publican ideas; and
“Whereas, in one year and a half of
strife, in which they have been pitted
against the largest and best equipped
armies that Spain has produced, they
have managed to hold their enemies, and
observing in their conduct of the war all
those laws which humanity and civiliz
ed warfare Impose on the warring fac
tions; be it therefore
"Resolved, That the general assembly
of the state of Alabama hereby extends
its heartfelt sympathy to the struggling
republic of Cuba for the heroic struggle
it Is now engaged in; and it hereby urges
lbs representatives in congress to aid and
support such measures as will lead to the
granting Cf belligerent rights to the rising
republic, whose deeds in the last year
and a half have proven her to be com
posed of brave, true and loyal patriots.
"That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the representatives and senators
of Alabama in congress and also to sec
retary of state, and president of the
United States.’1
A GOOD WORD FOR THE LOBBY.
One lota] bill, which had already passed
the house, and which proposed to refund
(209 of the liquor license to John Bell, of
Clayton, Ala., brought on an hour's heat
ed discussion
Senator Brewer, chairman of th?
finance committee, and sometimes called
t ho watchdog of the treasury, stated that
the evidence betore the committee showed
that this was a just claim, and Its pay
ment was recommended by the state aud
itor and the probate judge of Barbour
county. He could not bo accused of reck
lessly' voting money out of the state
treasury; but one function of the general
assembly was that of a court of claims;
and when a claim was a just one, It
should be paid. And, further, it was
right, proper and competent for a lobby
to be here to push or oppose measures,
as It was for them or their attorneys to
attend any other court.
The bill was lost by a vote of 12 to 15.
Mr. Bouldin, Immediately after roll call
this morning, made a motion to recon
sider the vote by which house bill 544
passed the house yesterday providing for
an acknowledgement of a $2,000,000 debt
to the University of Alabama.
Mr. Bouldin stated that he disliked
very much to oppose this measure, as he
was a friend to the university and if
there was ever a set of men that he hated
to oppose it Is the friends of this bill, but
he considered it his duty as a representa
tive of the people to oppose this measure,
which is the acknowledgment of a $2,
000.000 debt of the state to the university.
Mr. Bouldin's motion to reconsider the
vote was carried, ayes 45, noes, 20.
Mr Merrill said: "I think the bill
should be recommitted to the committee
from which It came, and let a substitute
come before this house as an appropria
tion and I will support It, but as the ac
knowledgment of an alleged debt I am
opposed to It.”
Mr Bouldin then made a motion to
table the bill, and said if a new bill was
brought before the house to make an
appropriation to the university he would
support It, but would not vole to ac
knowledge an alleged debt against the
state.
Messrs. Davidson and Brandon wanted
the consideration postponed until Mon
day that they might have a chance to
draw a substitute that, would not include
the acknodledgment of this debt, but
Bouldin said we do not want anything
■with the ear marks of this bill on It.
“Bring up a new' bill for an appropria
tion. and I will support it.” said Mr.
Bouldin. "Therefore I must Insist upon
my motion to table the hill.”
The motion was carried by a vote of
ayeis, 39: noes, 30: and the bill1 was tabled.
Mr. Green's bill known as the anti-trust
bill, passed the house unanimously.
There was no discussion whatever which
was quite a surprise as this was one of
the most Important measures introduced
in the present assembly. The bill declares
unlawful and void all arrangement, con
tracts, agreements, trusts or combina
tions, made wtth a view to lessen, or tend
to lessen free competition In the Importa
tion or sale of articles imported into this
state, or in the manufacture of articles of
domestic growth, or of domestic raw ma
terial, to declare unlawful and void all
arrangements, contracts, agreements,
trusts or combinations between persons
or corporations designed or which tend to
advance, reduce or control the price of
such product or article to producer or
consumer of any such product or article;
to provide for forfeiture of the charter
and franchise of any corporation, organ
ized under the laws of this state, violat
ing any of the provisions of this act, to
prohibit every foreign corporation violat
ing any of the provisions of this act from
doing business In this state, to require
the attorney general of this state to In
stitute legal proceedings against any such
corporations violating the provisions of
this act, and to enforce the penalties pre
scribed; to prescribe penalties for the
violation of this act; to authorize any per
son or corporation, damaged by any such
trust agreement or combination, to sue
for the recovery of such damage, and for
other purposes.
The next special order of the day was
a bill to promote the building of cotton
factories in the state, and provides for
! the exemption from taxation of cotton
factories for ten years.
Mr. Cullom opposed the measure, say
ing that builders of cotton* factories do
not need relief from taxation, and as
every forty-acre farm in the state was
taxed the corporations should be taxed
also.
Mr. Davis followed In favor of the bill,
saying:
“If this bill, passes, it would increase
Instead of decreasing the revenue, as the
bill does not provide for the exemption
from taxation of the land, but the ma
chinery and improvements thereon, and
this would enhance value In this loca
tion; therefore, the taxes would be in
creased.
“If we do not offer these factories in
ducements they will go to states that
do, and I hope this bill which tends to the
upbuilding of our state will pass,” said
Mr. Sheldon.
Mr Sheldon read an extended commu
nication, which contained many reasons
why cotton factories should be exempted
from taxation.
The previous question being called, the
bill passed—ayes., 50; nays, 8.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
At its afternoon session the senate
held a very short time and continued the
consideration of the calendar. It passed
a small number of local bills, as it was
hard to hold a quorum.
THE JM’GILL INSTITUTE, MOBILE.
The bill to exempt McGill institute
from taxation was one of the few vic
tims of an adverse vote. It was lost by
a vote of 12 to 9, but Senator Smith
changed his vote from aye to no, and
gave notice of motion to reconsider on
Monday. This college was chartered by
the present assembly and the bachelor,
McGill Bros., merchants of Mobile left
It an endowment of 8490,009; probably the
largest endowment of any college in this
state.
SENATE CONFERENCE.
A conference of the democratic sena
tors was called by Senator Pettus to meet
In the senate chamber just after adjourn
ment of the afternoon session.
It remained in session over two hours,
and there was a full and tree discussion
of three Important pending measures,
namely, the primary election, constitu
tional convention and repeal of the
Sayre election law bills.
The conference was purely advisory,
and not binding on any one.
No conclusion was reached as to party
action on the two first, but it was decided
to amend the last In some particulars.
IN A RECEIVER'S HANDS.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 6.—The Southern
Mutual Building and Loan association
was placed in the hands of Judge James
A. Anderson today as temporary re
ceiver. The receiver was appointed by
Judge John S. Candler on the application
of certain shareholders who state that
the association is solvent and unable to
meet current withdrawals of stock. The
petitioners say that they have asked for
withdrawals amounting to |100,000 in the
last six months, but they have not been
able to get their money. The funds of
the association are said to be small. It
is stated in the petition that the recent
decision of judges in Tenenssee and the
receiverships of similar associations in
that state have weakened confidence in
the Southern Mutual, hence its insol
vency. The association has $1,250,000
loaned on real estate. The loans are all
protected, but It will be a long time be
fore some of them mature and In the
meantime the suits will eat largely Into
the revenues.
Birmingham to Have a Mam
moth Steel Plant.
ALL DETAILS ARE ARRANGED
Birmingham Rolling Mill Plant to Have Con
verters Erected at Once
AND WITHIN SIX MONTH’S TIME
The Age of Steel Will Have Been Inaugu
rated In the Magic City—Quick Work
By Commercial Club In Raising
the Subscription.
It Is an assured fact that Birmingham
is to have a steel plant.
The announcement has been made on
several occasions, each and every time
on good authority, but as often as the
assurance was given just so often would
the plant disappear like vapor on a hot
June day.
This time, however, the State Herald
Is In a position to assure Its readers that
within a month a full-sized, first-class
steel mill will be In operation within
sight of the union passenger station.
Gossip mongers have long scouted the
idea of such a thing, but now they may
cease their prating.
The establishing of the steel plant was
brought about In this manner: President
John G. Caldwell, of the Birmingham
Rolling Mill company, arrived here from
Louisville some ten days or two weeks
ago with a proposition to be submitted to
Birmingham’s enterprising citizens,
through the Comemrclal club. The
proposition was simply this:
The Birmingham Rolling Mill com
pany proposed to raise a steel converting
plant on this present mill site, the cost
of which, with scwne few necesasry altera
tions in their machinery, would amount
to $75,000. The Rolling Mill company
would furnish $35,000 of this iynount, pro
viding Birmingham would furnish the
remaining $40,000, 6 per cent, preferred
cumulative stock to be Issued by the Bir
mingham Rolling company to the sub
scribers.
| A committee rrom me uommerctou
club got together, and early y ester
mingham got together and early yester
day rooming announced that $36,500 o£
the amount had been secured, with as
surances of a gilt-edge character that
the small balance would be forthcoming.
Upon receiving this information Presi
dent Caldwell at once ordered a meeting
of the stockholders and directors of the
Birmingham Rolling Mill company called
for March 12, at which time the funds
would be forthcoming and stock issued
therefor.
This is the best piece of information
furnished the State Herald readers in
many days, and is of such a character ad
to make the veritst skeptic feel good.
The Birmingham rolling mills employ,
as they are now operated, about 1,200 peo
ple, and with the converters added, the
pay roll will bo acoordingly increased.
Tne present plant has been using steel
billets from Fori Payne for some time,
but when the converters are in place Fort
Payne will have to look elsewhere for a
market for her ware®
MR. CALDWELL. TO MOVE HERE.
President Caldwell, In view of the fact
that the deal, upon which he had been
so deeply interested, had been carried to
a successful issue, at once purchased a
site on the South Highlands, and'will at
once begin the erectio nof a palatial res
idence, which, upon completion, will ba
occupied by himself and his estimable
family.
GONE TO CANADA.
Bethlehem, Pa., Feb. 6.—The statement
given out that the shortage, of C. E.
Breder, the defaulting cashier of the First
National bank, is $12,000, was confirmed
today by President Meyers. Breder has
not committed suicide, as his friend® be
lieved, but is in Toronto, Canada. His
wife received a letter from him this morn
ing, dated Toronto. He says he will never
come back. The bank, it is said, will
make no effort to bring him back. Con
trary to expectations, there was no run
on the bank today.
ALL QUIET AT OANEA.
London, Feb. 6.—A dispatch from Ca
nea. Crete, the scene of the disturbance
between the Christians and Mussulmans,
shows that the city is quiet today, though
the situation is still serious. The lat
est reports say that there has been no
massacre of Christians and that the
fighting was less frightful than was sup
posed. The British consul at Canea re
ports that twenty Christians were killed.
New Haven, Conn., Feb. 6.—It was an
nounced today that the G. F. Warner
manufactory, of this city, would shut
down on Monday indefinitely. The firm
employs about 100 hands. The company
has one of the largest foundries in the
state. The managers state that the gen
eral business depression Is responsible
for the shut down.
NOTED MISSIONARY DEAD.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 6.—A special
to the Advertiser, from Courtland, Ala.,
says: Rev. Dr. Charles Taylor, for years
a missionary to China, for the Southern
Methodist church, died at his place yes
terday. Last Christmas day he and his
wife celebrated their golden wedding.
ARRESTED FOR MURDER.
Jackson, Feb. 6.—Joe Allen, who mur
dered another negro at Donee, in Mc
Combe City, three weeks ago, was arrest
ed here last night by Marshal Ewing,
and turned over to McCombe City officers.
Allen was working in the oil mills when
surprised by the police. He surrender
ed and admitted the crime.
ASKED Fqp PARERS.
Havana, Feb. 8.—The government has
asked the supreme court to furnish it
with a copy of the military proceedings
against the American citizens George
Aguirre, Esteben Gregorln and Lorenzo
Vives, all of whom axe charged with tak
ing part In the re'belllon.
FAVORED RESUMPTION.
Hamburg, Feb. 8.—Sixty-five- per cent,
of the strlkln£ dock laborers voted today
in favdy of resuming work, the remaining
25 oer cent, voting to continue the strike.
GREECE DONS WAR PAINT
Sends Her Navy to Avenge
Cretan Outrages.
AND TROUBLE LOOKED FOR
Abdul Hamid In One of His Moods Which
Forebodes Horrible Butcheries.
HOW TO OBSERVE THE JUBILEE
Is the Paramount Question—Wales’ Excel
lent Proposal—London To He More Se
curely Guarded From Attacks of
Enemies—Russia’s Convicts.
(Copyright, 1897. by the Sun Printing and
Publishing Association.)
London, Feb. 6:—The temperature of
European politics has grown decidedly
warmer during the past two or three
days.
It is announced that the ambassadors’
scheme of reforms which Is to be forced
upon the sultan by all the powers, has
been completed and unanimously agreed
upon. This is coupled with the really
ominous news that the sultan is in a com
placent mood and ready to consent to
anything. It has been learned by bit
ter experience that this frame of mind
on the part of Abdul Hamid, Is the most
dangerous of all and Is usually prelim
inary to a most fanatical outbreak of
cruelty. Close upon this announcement
comes yesterday's uprising in Crete,
which is by far the worst that has yet
occurred in that unhappy island. It is
not possible to hold the sultan respon
sible for these outrages, for the present
situation in Crete Is in the nature of an
Interregnum. The International force
which is to guarantee the reforms in the
Island has not yet been organized and
the situation is extremely awkward.
Greece, whose quarrel with Turkey has
been growing rapidly acute from day to
day, has not hesitated to take quick ad
vantage of the excesses of the Turkish
soldiers in the Island and han sent all
her available naval force there. This is
a disdnctly belligerent move, and It is
probably intended that the sultan shall
Interpret it as such. Should he retaliate,
as is pronaDie, mere win De presented
complications which will quickly force
the hand of the great powers. In deal
ing with the whole Turkish situation this
fresh and unanticipated difficulty will na
turally put a strain upon the harmony
between the powers, which is of only re
cent and tender existence. The cunning
sultan is fully aware of this and he will
be only too glad to destroy the unity of
purposes among his more powerful men
tors at the expense of a rew with Greece.
He will be further encouraged in his ef
forts by the latest friction over Egypt
caused by the recent note from Russia
and Trance regarding the expenses of the
Kgyptlan-Engllsh expedition to the Sou
dan. It is quite true that the powers
cannot well be working Inharmonlously
at Constantinople and quarreling bitterly
at Cijro at one and the same time.
The Egyptian situation, bv the way,
was at last put before mo world in plain
language by the chancellor of the ex
chequer last night In a speech announc
ing the intentions of the British govern
ment. He spoke with unconcealed con
tempt of the decisions of the mixed tribu
nals ordering the return to the Egyptian
treasury of the money advanced for the
Nile expedition, and forthwith declared
that Great Britain was fully determined
to take Khartoum, Moreover, he gave
notice to the world, with significant em
phasis, that when England made up her
mind what was the right policy In regard
to Egypt she would not be worried out
of It by such difficulties as a refusal of
money. This language is already causing
much agitation and much bellicose lan
guage in various place* on the continent,
but whether It willTiave unfavorable in
fluence upon the agreement in regard to
Turkish affairs remains to be seen. The
situation, as a whole, including the Cre
tan difficulty, and the Greclan-Turkish
quarrel, will demand the most diplomatic
skill, and perhaps sharp physical action
within the next few days for Its success
ful handling.
How to celebrate the queen’s Jubilee
Is a question which Is apparently para
mount in the British mind Just now. A
multitude of suggestions have been made,
most of them absurd, and many of them
undignified, to say the least. The Prince
of Wales’ plan, announced today. Is for
London to celebrate the jubilee by pro
viding for the annual deficiency of more
than half a million dollars in the expense
of maintaining the hospitals In the me
tropolis. This will undoubtedly com
mand popular sympathy and generous
support. The London hospitals are sup
porter} almost exclusively by private
funds and subscriptions. They are not In
any case a public charge. The annual
canvassing to which their managers are
compelled to resort In order to keep the
Institutions open Is a nuisance and al
most a public scandal. The Prince of
Wales’ appeal will easily bring forth the
sum to cover a single year’s deficiency,
but If he has in mind a sum which will
yield an annual Income of half a million
dollars, the undertaking Is Indeed a
gigantic one. Even at 8 per cent., which
is a high rats of Interest In this country,
the sum neeesasry would be $16,000,000.
It has been decided that the principal
feature of the celebration In June shall
be another great ceremony in Westmin
ster abbey similar to that of ten years
ago. It will probably be of the nature of
“re-crowning" her majesty before the
most illustrious assembly of the world’s
rulers and great men which can be gotten
together. The abbey will be closed early
next month, when extensive prparatlons
for the ceremony will be begun. The
shop keepers of London, especially those
In the west end, are of course, prepared
tor an ttnmense inane in connection wun
the queen's Jubilee. The possibility of
loss In case of the sudden death of the
queen has been troubling them greatly.
Several of them decided to lake no
chances. They have taken the precau
tion to pay a good round premium for in
surance on her majesty's life during the
next six months so that in case of her
death they will not suffer in pocket.
There have been many hard things said
about the British war department this
week, especially in connection with the
government’s proposal to increase the
army by 8,000 men at an expense of $2-,500,
000 annually. It has been plainly in
sinuated even by usually staunch tory
Journals that the war office is scandal
ously Incompetent and there are threats
of startling exposures. The war alarms
of the past year have moved the govern
ment to do something for the defense of
London, which at present is at the mercy
of any force which succeeds in breaking
through the naval barrier*. The war
budget introduced thto week contains a
vole of about half a million dollars iu or
der that thirteen central magazines, for
which land has already been bougnt may
be completed. In audition to buildings
it will be necessary to mage the proper
approaches and military roads by which
to connect the various centers as links in
a continuous chain. Of the three cen
ters already computed two are on the
south of London and one on the north.
The vote now asked fof is to complete ten
other store houses as points of concen
tration for different brigades, all on the
south between Frith and Tooting. These
will practically close all roads against a
force advancing upon London from the
mouth of the Thames or any landing
place along the coast as far as Brighton.
Nothing like fjrtlHcatlons will be con
structed, but Simply defensible store
houses in which entrenching tools, camp
equipments and munitions of war will be
kept ready to be Issued in an emergency
to the volunteers and militia on whom the
task of defending the positions would
fall. Ultimately the positions would
have to be strengthened by earth works,
but these need only to be thrown up
when the danger of attack seemed immi
nent. The essential thing Is for each
brigade to know exactly where to assem
ble if an emergency arose and that it
would be sure of iinding the stores of
material necessary lor placing the posi
tion in a state of defense.
The building of the trans-Siberian rail
way Is causing a complete reorganization
of the ltussion convict system. The pres
ent rules are that exiled offenders shall
be sent to nearer or farther parts of Si
beria according to the article of the code
under which they were convicted. The
appointed place of exiles for lighter of
fenses is nearer European Russia than
for serious crimes. It is not difficult
even now for offenders who are courage
ous enough and who are provided with
means oi support to matte tneir way se
cretly back to Europe or to go abroad.
The needful passports, and disguises are
usually pro-curable. The real utility of
the Siberian convict system has depended
upon the physical difficulties of traveling
the vast distances back to civilization.
The new report eliminates these ob
stacles. It Is reported from Moscow that
the island of Saghalien will be the future
destination of Russian exiles. This island
is. already used for the imprisonment of
criminals of the lowest type.
It is said that the colonial secretary is
feeling sadly annoyed by the few, sharp,
appropriate words with which President
Kruger received his speech criticising the
present attitude of the Boer government
towards the Uitlanders. The grand old
Boer simply expressed proper condemna
tion of Mr. Chamberlain's attempt to mix
up the so-called Ultlander's grievances
with the chartered free hooting invasion
of the republic. Germany especially has
put the wo-rst construction upon Mr.
Chamberlain’s speech, and the continent
al papers freely express the opinion that
in the near future the rifles of the brave
Roers will once more have work to do.
Among the reports which circulated
this week is one that the real motive of
the Jameson raid was the fact that vast
quantities of rich ore had been discovered
In the deep levels of the Transvaal mines,
and it was determined to gpf possesion of
of the country before the truth became
known. This story was open to the sus
picion of stock jobbing purposes, but if
so. It had no effect in that direction.
Most people know that the Italian ex
premier, Signor Crispi, Is a good hater,
and that it was not hts custom when In
power to spare his real or fancied ene
rn-iles. The latter have had their turn,
and though their Inning had ben a long
one. they are far from tired of the sport
Ml- baiting the o]d lion. They destroyed
apparently forever Signor'<7fIspPs“p'o'lrti
cal influences, and ruin d his private for
tunes. They have driven his son into dis
honorable exile, and they have dragged
his daughter’?! honor In the mire, and still
their thirst for vengeance lsnotqueneh*=d.
The judicial inquiry into the seemingly ’
eternal “financial scandals" has been ex
tended to Include an Investigation of the
affairs of the defunct newspaper. Ri
forma, and Its former editors, managers,
compositors and printers have been
seaechingly examined in the hope of com
promising Crispi. One of the managers
of the Rlforma was Crlspi’s nephew. Sig
nor Parliamenghl. ana h™ has come out
of the inquiry with a bedraggled appear
ance. Now It Is proposed to cite Mi*«aa.uie
Lina Crispi before the examlnig Justice?
to explain certain Items of her private
banking account, which It has h-en dis
covered she had with the Bank of Colo. ■
GEORGIA’S NEW COLONY.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 6.—A new colony
known as Union City has just been op
ened in Cherokee county. The promoters
have 9.000 acres of land and they have
hundreds of applications for homes. Ex
Gov. Northen, of Georgia, and R. A. Dim
mick, of Washington, are prominently
Identified with the project. The location
is at the foot of the Blue Ridge moun
tains, in the edge of the gold belt, in a
good farming section.
SENATOR HARRIS’ CONDITION.
Washington, Feb. 6.—Senator Harris'
physician says that the senator has Im
proved steadily for the last twenty-four
hours and Is now convalescing.
on theturfT
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Feb. 6.—Fine, mild weath
er drew out 4,000 people today. The track
was lumpy and slow, and results were
affected, only two favorites winning.
First Race1—Seven furlongs. If, 102
(Songer), 15 to 1, won; Bell of Fordham
second, Springtime third. Time, 1:35%.
Second Race—Seven furlongs. Candy,
103 (C. Reiflf), 10 to 1, won; Jack Hayes
second, Dawn third. Time, 1:34%.
Third Race—A mile and one-sixteenth.
Van Brunt, 115 (Scherrer), even, won;
Linnette second, Favorlne third. Time,
1:56%.
Fourth Race, six furlongs. Pisa, 105
(Dorsey), 5 to 2, won; Lagliona second,
Bust Up third. Time, 1:20.
Fifth Race—One mile, selling. Pop Dix
on, 95 (A. Barrett), 5 to 1, won; Prince of
India Becond, Carl Holland third. Time,
1:18%.
Sixth Race—Seven furlongs. Gunwad,
102 (Clay), 10 to 1, won; Winslow second,
Alto June third. Time, 1:35%.
INGLES1DE RESULTS.
Ingleside, Cal., Feb. 6.—Fine weather
and a slow track today.
First Race—Six furlongs, selling. Snow
Down, 100 (H-. Martin), 3 to 1, wem;
Brametta, second; Franco, third. Tinw'T""
1:18%.
Second Race—Six furlongs, selling.
Foremost. 99 (H. Martin), 5 to 1, won;
Scimitar, second; Mercutlo, third. Time,
1:18.
Third Race—One mile. Geyser, 105
(Sloan), 1 to 2, won; Imp. Sain, second;
Lincoln II., third. Time, 1:45%.
Fourth Race—One mile, selling. Babe
Murphy, 93 (Reldy), 11 to 5, won; Day
light, second; Addle Buchanan, third.
Time. 1:45%.
Fifth Race—The Hobart stake, mile and
a sixteenth, value $1,500. Damlon, 100
(Sloan), 13 to 5, won; Salvation, second;
Schiller, third. Time, 1:51%.
Sixth Race—iMile and a half, hurdle.
Reddlngton, 133 (Cochran). 7 to 5, won;
J. O. C., second; Gold Dust, third. Time,
2:55%.
Seventh Race—Three and a half fur
longs. Sir William, 113 (Freeman), 4 to 1,
won; Clay, seound; Kummel, third. Time,
:45%,
THURSTON STILL THUG
Against Allen’s Proposed Mode
of Settlement of
THE UNION P/|FIC CASE
_.• n
O
Nicaragua Canal Bill , 2n Fails to Get Be
*■ O'
fore th ^J;nate.
- |
SENATOR CAMERC JOINT RESOLUTION
L
Recognizing Cuban Independence Also
Blocked—District of Columbia Ap
propriations Disposed Of- A
Useless Meeting.
Washington, Feb. 6.—Another Install
ment of the speech of Senator Thurston
(rep. Neb.), on his colleague's resolution
designated to prevent.the Judicial sale of
the Union Pacific railroad property oc
cupied the time of the senate up to 2 p.
m. today. His summary of the case to
day was that If the government were
to become the owner of the Union Pacific
line It would have to pay for It In cash
$50,000,000; to pay $15,000,000 or $20,000,000
for the terminals and to forego the $29,
000,000 net which it could now receive for
its claim.
The Nicaraguan canal bill was allowed
to go over informally in order to pass
bills on the calendar that were unobject
ed to. Borne fifteen were passed. Among
them were the following;
Senate bill appropriating $86,000 for the
relief of the Mobile Marine Dock com
pany.
Senate bill conveying to Rafel Seguro,
of Iberia, Ua., the United States mle to
certain lands In that parish.
Resolution (offered by Mr. Morgan) re
lating to the capture of the Competitor
by a SpanislAhip of war. It requests the
president to communicate to the senate
all the facts and proceedings.
When Senator Cameron's Joint reso
lution recognizing the independence of
Cuba was reached Senator Hill, who was
in the chair, remarked facetllously that
in the absence of objection It would be
considered as passed. The objection then
came, and a motion was made by Mr.
Morgan (dem. Ala.), to proceed to Its con
sideration. of the agreement under the
objection. As that motion, however, was
in contravention or tne agreement under
which the senate was acting, the motion
was withdrawn—Mr. Morgan stating that
he would make an effort to get action
upon the joint resolution whenever the
opportunity offered.
The day's session closed with the de
livery of eulogies on the late Represen
tative Cogswell, of Massachusetts, who
idled In May, 1895, and at 4 p. m. the sen
ate adjourned until Monday.
IN THE HOUSE.
The house today In committee of the
whole concluded consideration of the bill
making appropriations for the expenses
of the District of Columbia for the year
ending June 30, 1S98, and then passed It.
Hut few amendments and- those unim
portant. were made to it. The Dill to
amend the Wilson tariff act so as to per
mit the treasury officials to sell forfeited
opium to the highest bidder and not re
quire them to secure the amount of the
duty. $10 a pound, was passed.
At 2:45 o’clock the house adjourned.
WITHOUT ACTION.
House Committee on Coinage. Weights
and Measures Adjourned.
w«siiirigton. Feb. 6.—The house com
mittee on weights and measures
today began the crmwdar.atUvn of the
senate bill providing for the nflpi inimuni
of delegates to an international mone
tary conference to be called In the fu
ture. Senator Chandler made a brief
argument in support of the senate bill
and was followed by Mr. Newlands, who
said that the bimetallists of this country
were in favor of restoring the value of
silver and if it could not be done by
national methods they were willing to
do It by International means. There had
already been four International confer
ences, but they had been mere debat
ing societies, and had accomplished noth
ing, and he was afraid that If another
was held the result would be the same.
The delegates to these conferences gen
erally went without authority to com
mit the countries they represented and
consequently no result was obtained.
In his opinion the matter could be set
tled or adjusted by dfplomatic corres
pondenee.
The committee adjourned without ac
tion and will probably give further hear
ings before talcing any action.
VIIRQINIA REFUSES TO PAT.
Washington, Feb. 6.—Replying to a
house resolution asking whal steps have
been taken to collect or procure a set
tlement of the principal and interest of
certain state bonds and stocks now be
longing to t'he United States, Secretary
Carlisle transmits a communication,
from the attorney genera] stating that
further legislation by congress is nec
essary before the department can force
a settlement. The state of Virginia re
fused payment on her bonds when the
demand was made. >.
FOUND DEAD IN THE WOODS.
Meridian, MIbs., Feb. 6.—Word has been
received In Meridian that Charles Peavy,
a citizen of Chunky, Miss., dropped
dead while hunting. It seems that
Peavy went out hunting turkeys and
found a large bunch of the fowls. He
shot a big gobbler and as he went to pick
It up he fell dead. His family became
alarmed when he failed to return home
for dinner. Upon instituting search his
body was found in the woods, cold and
ptlff In death from heart disease. The
deceased leaves a large family. He was
* Mason.
FIGHTING JOE SHELBY ILL.
Kansas City, Feb. 6.—Gen. Jo Shelby,
'Fighting Joe," the noted Confederate
general and United States marshal for
the Western district of Missouri. Is very
ill on his farm, near Adrian. He has been
suffering some days with pneumonia,
which has developed Into typho-pneumo
nla fever, and late last night his condi
tion became critical. His condition to
day Is Improved.
POPE IN GOOD HEALTH,
Rome, Feb. 6.—It is announced from the
Vatican that the pope Is in good health,
and will attend a requiem mass In com
memoration of Pope Plus IX., on Mon
day.
PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED.
Lisbon, Feb. fi.—The Portugese parlia
ment was dissolved today.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1897. NUMBER 19
House Accepts the Bill of the
Commiitee
AS PREPARED BY THEM
Efforts to Introduce Amendments Met and
Promptly Defeated.
THE VETO POWER OF THE GOVERNOR
Brought Into Play on the Annieton Amend
ed Charter Bill-Hie Message Explain
«
ing His Action—University Bill
Introduced in the House.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 8.—(Special.)—
The morning session of the house today
was one full of importance to the people
of the Industrial district of the state.
The bill providing a new mining law
for Alabama was passed, the vote in fa
vor of it being almost unanimous. It pro
poses to enact an entirely new code of
mining laws for the state, and to re
peal all laws relating to mining now
on the Etatute books.
The bill which is the one prepared by
the special committee of the legislature
which visited the mines about Birming
ham during the recess, came up as a
special order at 10:30.
Mr. Longshore moved to amend the
first section by fixing the salary of the
chief inspector at $1,300 Instead of $1,600,
and of the associate inspector at $1,000
instead of $900 each. The amendment
was voted down as to the decrease of
the chief inspector's salary, but was
adopted as to the increase In the associ
ates' salaries.
Mr. Longshore then moved to amend
the fourth section of the bill by repulr
ing that all coal mined in the state
should be weighed and paid for by
weight, regardless of any contract to
the contrary. This amendment also was
lost.
Not dismayed, Mr. Liongsnore meu
the fourth section of the bill by requir
that not less than 100 cubic feet of air
per minute per man be provided In everyl
mine. This amendment provoked more
discussion than the others, Messrs. Alt
man and Longshore favoring it, and
Messrs. Cofer, Harkins and NeSmith,
members of the committee, opposing it.
Mr. Harkins, who is a skillful miner,
explained to the house that while 100 feet
per man per minute would be a super
abundance in some mines, it would not be
sufficient in others; that the amount of
air needed was regulated by the amount
of explosive and unwholesome gasses
generated In the mine.
The proposed amendment was finally
killed and the bill passed the house by a
safe majority, and was sent to the sen
ate without engrossment.
Col. Altman, standing on his crutches,
made an able speech In favor of the adop
tion of Mr. Longshore’s amendment to
section 8. He aiso voted for Mr. Long
shore’s amendment to sections 4 and 8, as
likewise did Mr. Lipscomb.
The committee on education today re
ported favorably Speaker Clements’ bill
to reimburse the university. The bill Is
a compromise measure and provides for
the gradual increase of the appropriation
to the Institution at the rate of $10,000 per
year until 1901, when it will have reached
$80,000, which amount shall thereafter be
the established annual appropriation.
This bill will meet, it is thought, the ob
jections of Mr. Boulden and others, who
declined without further Investigation to
declare the indebtedness of the state to
be $2,000,000.
The alumni is well represented here,
and will make a dllligent fight to get the
appropriation through. The bill provides
that, after the annual payment from the
state reaches $60,000, $20,000 of the
amount shall be loaned to deserving
young men—one from each county—who
shall give notes for its repayment within
six years.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The following bills passed the house;
H. 1040—To authorize, ratify and con
firm the schedule of licenses for the city
of Birmingham, and the ordinances of
the board of mayor and aldermen of
said city adopting and establishing the
same.
H. 1089—To more effectually secure
competent and well qualified Jurors in
Cullman county, Alabama.
H. 1026—To repeal an act establishing
the city court of Bridgeport.
H. 512—To preserve game, animals and
birds in the county of Marshalll.
H. 772—To amend the charter of the
city of Anniston; to amend sections sev
enteen (17) and twenty-five (25) of an act,
approved Feb. 18, 1895, entitled an act
to establish a new charter for the city of
Anniston; and to prescribe in what the
fines, taxes, license, dues and charges
due to and collectable by the city of An
niston, shall be paid.
H. 1152—To require ranroau companies
to establish depots In. towns of more than
100 inhabitants.
H. 1113—To fix the fees of the circuit
clerk of the county of Lamar and in civil
and criminal cases.
H. 1066—To amend section 2 of an act
entitled an act to establish a new charter
for the city of Cullman, Ala., approved
Dec. 12, 1890.
S. 231 (with amendment)—To establish
a county court for the county of Cle
burne.
H. 966—To provide for the appointment
of overseers of public roads in Jefferson
county and to prescribe their duties.
H. 913—To repeal an act entitled an act
to amend section 6 of an act entitled an
act to provide for the making and main
taining of the public roads and bridges
in Jefferson county, Alabama, approved
Dec. 17. 1894.
H. 914—To amend an act entitled an
act to provide for the making and main
taining of the public roads and bridges
jn Jefferson county, Alabama, approved
Dec. 18, 1894.
H. 915—To require the commissioner's
court of Jefferson county, Alabama, to
keep a book of records of roads anjl to
keep an entry of road matters therein.
ONLY A BASIS FOR A COURT BILL
Col. Altman has requested the State
Herald correspondent to explain that the
court bill. Introduced by him on Satur
day, and which was published in full in
Sunday’s State Herald, was not approved
In full by him or by any other member
of the Jefferson delegation. The bill was
introduced simply as a enucleus to build
on, and In order to reserve a place on the
calendar. It has been referred to h spe
cial committee consisting of the delega
tion from Jefferson, and the people of
Birmingham may rest assured that it will
not be reported back to the house until
It has been thoroughly digested and per
fected.
THE SENATE.
One of the first bills passed by the sen
ate this morning was house bill 845.
which, on motion of Senator Sayre, was
substituted for senate bill .'{34 to the very
same effect. In order to save time. This
bill requires all Are Insurance companies
doing business in the city of Montgomery
to pay annually $200 each to a fund for
the benefit of the Are companies of Mont
gomery and provides a penalty for re
fusal to pay the same. Before the vaca
tion the bill was amended so as not to
interfere with any claims now pending in
behalf of the Are companies under the
old law. This bill cow has only to be
signed by the governor to become a law.
The bill to incorporte the Independent
Fire Company No. 1, of Highland Park,
Ala., a suburb of Montgomery, was also
passed. It was introduced by Represen
tative Hill, and has already passed the
house.
Another bill of much Interest and im
portance to Montgomerians was passed
by the senate this rooming, to recognize
the charter of the City Infirmary and to
enlarge its powers.
The governor vetoed the Anniston bill
to allow that city to issue more bonds,
and gave his reasons therefor in a mes
sage to the senate which roads as follows:
Montgomery, Ala,, Feb. 8, 1897.
To the Senate:
It is with much reluctance that I re
turn without my approval senate bill No.
265, amending the charter of the city
of Anniston, because it has had the ap
proval of the distinguished gentlemen
who represent the county in the general
assembly.
Under an act approved Dec. 12, 1892,
the city of Anniston was authorized to
issue $55,000 of bonds to pay its float
ing debt and equip its public schools.
This act expressly authorized the city
authorities to make the coupons of such
bonds receivable for taxes and licenses
due to said city.
it is not denied that under the provis
ions of this act bonds were issued and
sold with this contract expressed on the
face of the coupons and it can hardly
be questioned that this contract right
to use the coupons in paying taxes and
licenses to the city of Anniston gave in
creased value to the bonds. Such must
have been the intention of the city au
thorities or they would not have vol
untarily caused such provisions to be
enacted into law or inserted in the cou
pons.
The third section of the bill I return
to you provides that "from and after the
passage of the act all lines, licenses and
taxes etc., payable to the city of An
niston shall be payable alone in lawful
money of the United States,” and pro
hibits the city authorities from passing
any ordinance permitting payment in
anything except lawful money of the
United States. This provision denies to
the holders of the coupons referred to
the right given them on the face of theib
coupons.
me constitution of our state forbids
the passage of any law that impairs the
•obligation of contracts by destroying or
impairing the remedy, ancT I am con
strained by this provision of our consti
tution from giving my assent to the bill
herewith returned.
Whilst I am sure that there is no in
tention on the part of the city authori
ties of Anniston to evade any just obli
gation, I do not think we can be too care
ful in having it fully understood that
the state of Alabama will, under no cir
cumstances, evade, impair or destroy any
contract right entered into under the
sanction of Its laws.
JOSEPH F. JOHNSTON,
Governor.
The afternoon session of the senate was
devoted to the consideration of Mr. Stan
sel's house bill. No. 135, which seeks to
authorize certain corporations to become
sureties on the bonds of state, county
and municipal officers, receivers and oth
ers. No debate developed that there
was a conflict of interests between foreign
and prospective home bond-making con
crns. The bill was amended so as to
require all foreign and home companies
to deposit $50,000 with the state auditor
as a guarantee to their Alabama policy
holders. With this and several other
amendments of no general interest the bill
was passed.
EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENT.
Aubrey Harwell was appointed chief
clerk board of tax commissioners today.
TRUSTEES NAMED.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 8.—(Special.)—
Gov. Johnston today announced the ap
pointment of the following trustees for
the agricultural school at Ounters+llle
Ala; S. W. Riddle, of Gadsden, for four
years; D. C. Williams, of Collinsville, for
six years; Sam Henry, of Guntersville, for
two years; A. M. Ayers, of Guntersville,
for four years; Robt. T. Coles, of Alberts
vllle, for six years.
AN ATLANTA FAILURE
Which Caught People at Anniston. Ala.,
and Ocala. Fla.—Building and Roan
Association In Receivers’ Hands.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 8.—Messrs. Paul
Romare, W. A. Hemphill and R. D.
Spalding have been asked to act as a
protective committee for the stockhold
ers in the Southern Mutual Building and
Loan association.
An effort Is being made to take the
company out of the hands of the tem
porary receiver and carry it on.
A bill was filed In court today by one
of the stockholders, charging W. C. Hale,
the secretary, with withdrawing large
sums from the association In violation of
his duties. An investigation is asked for.
STEPS TAKEN AT ANNISTON.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 8.—On appli
cation of solicitors for stockholders and
creditors in Alabama, a receiver was ap
pointed today by Judge Lapsley. of An
niston pity court, for all the property in
Alabama of the Mutual Building and
Loan association of Georgia.
OCALA CAUGHT, TOO.
Ocala, Fla., Feb. 8.—The citizens of
Ocala have been again hard hit financial
ly by the failure of the Southern Mutual
Building and Loan asociatioij, of At
lanta, Ga. Next to the home company
this association <Hd a larger business in
Ocala than any other, and its failure will
be severely felt by the Ocala stockhold
ers. {'apt. H. C. Wright, until a few
months ago, cashier of the Merchant’s
National bank, of this place, was one of
Its directors, and through him a large
business was built up for this company.
Mr. Albert Wright Is now busy Interview
ing the different stockholders of this city
with a view of being appointed receiver
to look after their Interests here, and as
he is the only applicant, no doubt will
receive the appointment.
WILSON’S VAGUE ANSWERS.
Washlrngton, Feb. 8.—Postmaster-Gen
earl Wilson was asked today if there
was any truth in the repeated statements
that he had been offered the presidency
of the Washington and Lee university.
Mr. Wilson said he had talked ubout the
matter with the trustees of that institu
tion, but that body had not held a mort
gage to make an offer of the position.
He jokingly remarked that he had, ac
cording to report, been offered the edi
torship of a New York dally, and was
also to practice law In the metropolis.
He added, in seriousness, that It was
true he had been offered the presidency
of several educational institutions.
A TERRIBLE EXPERIENCE
Admiral Bunce’s Fleet Encoun
ters a Severe Storm
FORTY MILES OFF THE COAST
Four Dead and Eight Wounded While the Ships
Were Damaged.
, |
ONE HEROIC ACT OF BRAVERY
A Seaman Plunges Into the Seething Bil
lows to Recover a -Shipmate and Is
Saved In the Nick of Time—Oth
ers In Jeopardy.
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 8.—The United
States warships New York, Maine, Co
lumbia, Amphitrlte and Marblehead ar
rived off Charleston bar today after a
terrible experience with the storm which
swept up the Atlantic coast Friday and
Saturday. The cruiser Columbia and
the battleship Maine were sighted from
Sullivan’s island early In the forenoon
and the flagship New York; the Monitor,
Amphitrlte and the cruiser Marblehead
steamed Into view later; the flagship be
ing the last of the squadron to reach an
anchorage to the north of the Charleston
lightship. All five of the vessels are now
at anchor about two miles off the bar.
Admiral Bunce's fleet ran straight into
the teeth of a terrible storm Friday
night. The warships were forty milts off
the North Carolina coast and well below
llatteras, and while the officers are as
Usual unwilling to discuss their experi
ences, it is known that both ships and
men were in great peril. When the fleet
was visited by a representative of the
Southern Associated Press this afternoon
It was learned that the actual loss con
slsted or four lives, eight men seriously
injured and minor Injuries to almost all
of the vessels themselves. The battle
ship Maine had six of her men overboard,
three of them losing- their lives. The
Marblehead los! one man killed and six
injured. The killed on the Maine were:
L. C. KOZEL., apprentice, dashed to
death against turrets and body lost at
sea.
JOHN BROWN, seaman, washed over
board and drowned, body not recovered.
A. B. NELSON, private United States
marines, washed overboard and drowned,
body lost.
The Marblehead lost Ships Carpenter
Strawhart, who was dashed to dfath by
the sea. His body was saved and buried
at sea Sunday.
Seven of the carpenter's gang who were
at work on the sea anchor were hurled
against the superstructure of the Bhip by
the sea and more or less injured. Their
names are:
Dennis Ryan, blacksmith; Charles Os
borne, shipwright, Apprentices Scanla/t
and Regan and Hicker, plumber. Hicker
sustained a compound fracture of the
skull and his condition is serious. Ar
rangements have been made for placing
all injured in the marine hospital here
and they will be transferred from their
ships to the shore tomorrow.
The New York, the Columbia, the Am
phitrite and the Maine were off the coast
below Hatteras and about forty miles out
when the storm began to gather Friday
night.
The admiral signalled from the New
York for the ships to stand together. The
storm was blowing from the southeast.
It steadily Increased during the night and
the four ships were separated. So heav
ily did the New York roll that the big
eight-inch guns in the turrets were lashed
down with heavy hawsers as a precau
tion. During the storm a heavy sea rolled
over the stern and the aft, companion
way was flooded with water, which went
down into the officers’ quarters. The gun
ports and the torpedo tubes also let the
water In; there was plenty of water in
side. The boatswain, William Ander
son, while on the forward deck, was
struck from his feet by a sea and injured
by being dashed gft. _ Naval Cadet Cas
tleman, while. on the forward quarter
deck, also lost his footing and was about
to go over the side when he managed to
seize a life line and save his own life.
When the sea was shipped astern the
sounding apparatus was knocked to flin
ders, and one of the officers nearly dashed
over the side.
When morning came the Maine was
sighted and spoken. The battleship, it is
believed, had the most trying experience
of the fleet.
Friday night the ’prentice, Kozei, was
struck by a terrible sea and his life
dashed out of him. The rushing wa
ters carried his body overboard. Two
men jumped after him as he Was being
carried away. They were the seaman,
John Brown, and the marine, Alexander
Nelson, Jr, In trying to save their mess
mate they lost their lives, for they, too,
were carried out into the mountains of
black water. Charles Hassell was wash
ed overboard at the same time. When
these four men went overboard William
J. Creelman, a landsman, was standing
on the pop deck. He saw the upturned
face of Kozei floating by. Creelman
dove over the stern and struck out to
save him. In the meantime two life
buoys had been thrown over. Hassell got
one of them. Brown, Nelson and Kozei
disappeared and the brave Creelman was
struggling far from the buoy intended
for him. Hassell saw him and reached
him in time to save his life.
The Maine was brought around in the
storm and a life-boat lowered from the
starboard. Naval" Cadet Gherardl wqs
put In command with six men. The boat
get only a Tew yards from the ship when
she was overturned and seven more men
were in the water. The men were res
cued with life lines. Tjie life-boat was
lost, as were one or more of the ship's
boats. These were all torn from their
davits by the heavy seas.
The Amphitrite, Maine, Columbia and
Marblehead were sighted in the morning
in the order mentioned. The Marble
head was laboring heavily and had out
oil bags. Grave fears had been entertain
ed for the Amphrltrite, but she rode out
the gale, and as far as can be learned lost
no life. On board the Maine a board of
inquiry reported on the loss of the three
m=n. They highly commended Creel
man's' brave attempt' to rescure Kozei.
He will be recommended for a life-saver’s
medal of the first-clasp. The Columbia,
Marblehead and Amphitrite came down
the coast together .zfter the storm. The
reason the New York did not arrive until
this afterh6ori’fs ^krilained by the fact
that she turned back and went almost to
Hatteras looking for the Monitor. The
Marblehead came up to the city this af
ternoon: and arrangements were made
for putting her injured sailors In the Ma
rine hospital here.
Exactly what amount of Injury the
various vessels themselves sustained
during the storm conns* now be stated.
1 (Continued oil ^Second Fage.)
CLEVELAND AGAIN DOWNED
Senate Passes Texas Judicial
District Bill
BY A DECISIVE MAJORITY
Arbitration Treaty Discussed Behind Closed
Doors In Spite of
L _
EFFORTS TO HAVE THEM PUBLIC
Hill as Usual Favored the Open Session But
Had Followers—District of Columbia
In the House—Mr. Watson’s
Hard Luck—News Notes.
Washington, Feb. 8.—Practically the
whole of today’s session of the senate
took place behind closed doors; the ques
tion under consideration being the Anglo
American arbitration treaty.
During the morning hours, before the
motion to proceed to executive business
was made by Mr. Sherman, chairman of
the committee on foreign relations, the
senate indulged in an exhibition of its
utter disregard of the reasons assigned
by President Cleveland for witholding
his approval from a bill passed by both
houses.
It was a bill creating a new Judicial
district in Texas. The United States
Judge, district attorney, marshal and
clerk had reported to the department of
Justice that the proposed legislation was
not oniy unnecessary, but tnat it would
be a serious interruption to the business
of the court, and on that report the pres
ident had acted in vetoing the bill. He
was roundly taken to task by Mr. Mills
(dem. Tex.), for having Consulted those
officials Instead of consulting the two
senators and thirteen representatives
from the state of Texas. Remarkably
•enough, however, Mr. Hoar (rep. Mass.),
round "very strong, good ana nontsi
reasons" for the president’s action, but
still favoired the bill in the Interest of the
people living in the counties embraced
within the new district, and when It came
to the yea and nay vote there was but
one senator (Caffery dem. La.), recorded
against the bill, while there were seventy
five senators voting to pass it notwith
standing the president’s action.
A concurrent ri“jlution for the with
drawal of a bill from the president on
account pf the discovery of a substan
tial mistake In i't led Mr. Hill (dem. N. Y.),
to question the constitutionality of such
a proposition; and the matter went over
for further consideration. In accordance
with his notice, Mr. Sherman moved an
executive session a few minutes after 1
o’clock at the conclusion of the morning
business, and the doors were closed for
the consideration of the arbitration
treaty with Great Britain.
Mr. Hill at once made a motion that the
doors he Opened and the debate proceed
in the jjfesence of the public. He laid
gome stress upon the l-Idiculouspess of a
debate upon a matter, the text of which
was In possession of the public; not only
the text, but the amendments proposed
bv the committee, which were published
in full despite the refusal of the senate
to remove the injunction of secrecy there
from.
The motion was antagonized not only
upon parliamentary grounds, but for the
reason that It would be against public
policy for such proceedings to be permit
ted. Mr. Gray, of Delaware, was the first
speaker to antagonize the motion of the
senator from New York.
Senator Gray was followed by Senators
Lodge and Sherman, who likewise op
posed the motion of Senator Hill. Both
these members of the foreign relations
committee took the broad grounds that
such a proceeding was against the estab
lished precedents of the senate, and if
it was agreed to could only lead to ill
results. Treaties were solemn compacts
with other powers, and whatever was
said in consideration of their merits or
demerits ought to be said behind closed
doors. If there was to be criticism it
ought not to be in public places, where
the heat of debate might lead to the ut
terance of sentiments that might be prej
udicial to the frinedliness now existing
between the two nations.
In the course of his remarks, Mr. Lodge
said that so far as his personal interests
were concerned, he would favor an open
session, for the reason it would enable
him to show his constituents and the
country just what he desired with regard
to this treaty; but when he considered the
subject from the standpoint of what was
best for the country, he saw very clear
ly that a closed session was not only de
sirable, but imperative. He did not wish
to see this treaty debated to death. As
amended and reported to the senate he
favored It, and desired that such course
might be pursued as would lead to its
ratification by the senate.
Mr. Morgan, another member of the
committee, also antagonized the motion
of Mr. Hill. He began his speech with
the statement that he supposed an im
mediate vote would be taken, but fif
teen minutes after this statement was
made there was no Indication of an ap
proaching conclusion of the speech of
the senator from Alabama.
Mr. Morgan took grounds similar to
those upon which the preceding speakers
had stood.
■ Senator Stewart, or rsevaaa, maae a
vigorous speech in favor of an open ses
sion. While he did not say so in words,
the inference tvas drawn from his re
marks that he desired such a session for
the reason that It would be conducive to
the defeat of the treaty.
Mr Hill again took the floor and made
a brief speech in favor of his motion,
and was replied to by Mr. Sherman, who
made a final appeal to the senators not to
open the doors on such an important
matter as was now before the senate.
The vote was then taken and resulted
in an overwhelming majority against
public dehate. The votes cast In favor of
an open session were:
Messrs. Brown, of Utah; Hill, of New
Tork: Lindsay, of Kentucky: Peffer, of
Kansas: Roach, of North Dakota; Stew
art, of Nevada; Tillman, of South Caro
lina. and Teller, of Colorado.
The consideration of the treaty on its
merits was then begun and lasted until
5:25 p. m.. when the senate adjourned
until tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Today’s session of the house of rep
. resentatlves Was taken up almost whol
ly in the consideration of bills relating
to the District of Columbia. None of
them were of more than local interest or
importance.
The copy of the returns taf the votes of
the several states for presidential elec
tors, which the law directs, Shall be sent
to the speaker, was laid before t’ne house
and will remain on the table, until the
official canvass of the vote is made on
Wednesday.
Mr Terry, (dem. of Arkansas), .asked I
if there was a-report from all the states,
and Speaker Reed replied that he be
lieved there was; that under the law one
copy was sent to the president of the
senate and one to the speaker of the
house.
Mr. Talbert, (dgm. of South Carolina),
endeavored to get before the house a
concurrent resolution of the legislature
of his state favoring Cuban recognition,
but objection was made to its reading
and to printing it in the record. Mr.
Talbert was compelled to content him
self with a reference of the resolution to
the committee on foreign affairs.
The speaker appointed Messrs. Grosv
enor, (rep. of Ohio), and Richardson,
(dem. of Tennessee), tellers on the part
of the house to count the electoral vote.
The second agreement of the conferees
on the immigration bill was presented
to the house by Mr. Danford (rep. of
Ohio), who gave notice that he would
call it up for action tomorrow.
At 6:10 o’clock the house adjourned.
WATSON’S HARD LUCK.
His Contest Meets With Disfavor by the
Elections Committee.
Washington, Feb. 8.—It Is said that the
house committee on elections, w-hich has
charge of the election contest brought by
Thomas Watson, of Georgia, recently
the populist candidate for vice-president,
against Representative Black, has de
cided to confirm Judge Black's title to
his seat. The verdict, It is understood,
is unanimous.
Representative Bartlett, of Georgia, a
democratic member of the committee,
will make the report in favor of Mr.
Black.
Secretary Francis ordered Land Com
missioner Lamoreaux to issue a patent
to the Perrine heirs, of whom Dr. Per
rine, Mrs. Cleveland’s step-father, is one
for 23,000 acres of land in Southern Flori
da.
DIED ON THE SCAFFOLD
Charlotte, N. C., Feb. 8.—Monroe John
ston, colored, was hanged In the county
jail In this city ait 11:15 this morning. His
neck was broken by the fall, and he was
pronounced dead within eleven minutes.
Johnston was convicted of the bur
glary of the home of Mr. Cowen Shields
on the night of Jan. 8, 1896. Miss Shields
was awakened by some one fumbling over
her bed. On making an outcry she was
shot at twice and thrown over a trunk.
Down stairs, the escaping burglar shot
and wounded Mr. Shields. The latter
recognized the voice and identified the
face as that of Monroe Johnston. Ef
forts were man** to get the governor to in
terfere, but he refused to do so. John
ston’s last words on the scaffold were
that he was innocent.
DEATH PREFERRED.
Young Man at Pensacola Suicides After
Being Arrested For Violating
the Law.
Pensacola, Fla., Feb. 8.—Donald Mc
Clellan, general delivery clerk at the
city postofflce, attempted to commit sui
cide at 11 o’clock this morning. The
cause was his arrest by an agent of the
postoffice department for sending im
moral letters through the mails. He was
arrested while on duty by Deputy Unit
ed States Marshal Henry Bellinger. The
marshal, a few minutes after the arrest,
turned his back on the prisoner, and in
one Instant a shot was heard and Mc
Clellan fell at his feet.
McClellan is a young man, who has
heretofore borne a stainless character
and the cause and attempt at self-mur
der is a shock to the whole community.
The victim is now at the Pensacola in
firmary.
No hopes of recovery are entertained,
as the ball passed from the right eye,
passing through his head to the right
base of the skull.
AFTER TWENTY-FIVE YEARS
An Alabamian Is Placed On Trial for a
Murder Committed in Florida.
Pensacola, Fla., Feb. 8.—The trial of
Collier Hall, a wealthy citizen of Mobile
county, Alabama, was called at 3 o’clock
today. The afternoon was consumed In
getting a jury which was completed at
6 o’clock.
Mr. Hall is under indictment for a mur
der committed near Bluff Springs, in this
county, in 1871. The indictment was re
turned in that year, but for some reason
has lain unnoticed until a few months
ago.
— Mr. Hall has been a resident of Mo
bile county, Alabama, for over twenty
years, and is highly respected by the citi
zens cf the county and the citizens of Mo
bile. The trial will be a long one and
creates much Interest in the county. The
strongest possible defense will be made
by eminent attorneys.
AN ATLANTA BANK
Placed in Receiver’s’ Hands, But the
Officials Claim Solvency,
v Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 8.—The State's Sav
ing bank was placed In a temporary
receivership today, but the bank did not
close its doors. There was a run on the
bank, but every demand was met, some
of the other banks going to its assist
ance.
W. A. Bates and T. J. Ripley were ap
pointed temporary receivers by Judge
John S. Candler, on the application of
W. C. McLane, a bookkeeper In the
Bates-Farley bank. Ripley is an attor
ney here. The State’s Savings bank is
capitalized at $100,000, and its deposits
were about $73,000. It Is alleged in the
petition for a receiver that the Southern
Mutual Building and Loan association
was indebted to the bank in a large sum,
and that the bank probably would never
be able to collect its Indebtedness. In i
answer to this the bank’s officers say
that the Building and Loan association
owes nothing to the bank and on the con
trary, the bank was carrying a deposit
for the association. The case will be
heard on next Saturday, when the ques
tion' of permanent receivership will be
determined.
H'ANNA'S LATEST.
Cleveland, O., Feb. 8.—Chairman M. A.
Hanna has inaugurated a gigantic
scheme, by which millions of voters will
be reached. To set the bail rolling. Chair
man Hanna’s first step was to make ar
rangements for the use of the "patent
insiders" furnished the thousands of
weekly and daily country papers in ail
parts of the country, for the distribution
of the "gold" matter that will be pre
pared by the agents of the national com
mittee. The terms of the contracts with
the various associations calls for from
one to three columns of printed matter
on the financial question in ali the "pat- l
ent insiders" sent outside. This will be
continued during the coming four years.
REVIVAL IN IRON AND STEEL.
rittsburg, Feb. 8.—A revival in the Iron
and steel business Is expected here.
Prices cf steel billets are about 25 cents
higher than last week, and orders at last
week’s figures were refused. Pig iron
prices are also advancing slightly.
CO M PRO MISEKCLARED OFF
Birmingham Police Commission
Bill In Statu Quo.
-
POWERS OF/YHE MAYOR
As a Member of . Body Causes a Hitch In
t yProceedings.
r*_
THE QUE? £)N OF A RIGHT TO VOTE
■’ ^ _
By His Honor Reopens the Breach and the
Fight Is Declared On Again—Goes
to the House Judiciary
Committee Today.
_ *
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 8.—(Special.)—
The friends and opponents of the Bir
mingham police commission met tonight
to draw up the bill upon which they
thought they had agreed, when it devel
oped that there had been a misunder
standing, as to the important details of
the mayor’s connection with the commis
sion.
Mr. Green contended his understand
ing was that the mayor should be an ex
offlelo member of the commission and
entitled to vote only on tie. Mr. Lowe
Insisted that he Interpreted the agree
ment to be that the mayor should be the
ex-offlelo chairman of the board with the
direction and supervision of police mat
ters.
The factions could not agTee and nego
tiations looking to a compromise are now
off. The fight will likely be renewed
tomorrow before the house judiciary com
mittee.
DANK PRESIDENT ARRESTED.
Ocala, Fla., Feb. 8.—President R. B.
McConnell, of the Merchants' National
bank, of this city, which closed its doors
Jan. 14, was today arrested by D’puty
United States Marshal Clark on the
charge of falsifying :he books of that In
stitution. Rut owing to the critical ill
ness of Mr. McConnell, as certified by his
two attending physicians, Drs. Smith and
Hood, the preliminary examination was
waived and he immediately gave a $10,
000 bond for ills appearance at the United
States court, now in session In Tampa.
The many friends In this city of Mr. Mc
Connell claim his ability to be able to
meet any charges that may be brought
against him.
IN FULL BLAST.
Pittsburg. Feb. 8.—The Homestead
steel works, Edgar Thomson blast fur
naces and steel works, Duquesne steel
works, resumed in full in all departments
last evening. The Westlnghouse electric
works resumed In full today on double
l time. It had been operating on half
time.
aiTimmense sale.
A Print Cloth Manufacturer Purchases
760,000 Pieces of Goods—The Ef
fect of the Purchase.
Fall River, Mass., Feb. 8.—Mr. D. Bor
den came into the market this morning
and purchased 750,000 pieces of goods,
500.000 spots and 250,000 futures at 2 9-16c.
This represents the largest sale of print
cloths in many months, and its effect
upop the market is awaited with interest.
It will undoubtedly make the market
higher, but it is generally thought that
it will have little or no effect on the
curtailment situation.
EFFECT OF THE PURCHASE.
A Ready Relief and Healthier Tone to
the Market—The Result.
New York, Feb. 8.—The purchase of
750.000 pieces of print cloth by Mr. D.
Borden, at Fall River, today, announced
in a dispatch from that place to the
Southern Associated Press, is a most im
portant one. Although the sale was not
announced till today, it is probable that
the arrangements under which it was
made were concluded at least two weeks
ago, while Fall River mill men were
canvassing for signers to the curtail
ment agreement now In force.
The stock of print cloths unsold and
held by the Fall River, Providence and
other eastern mills, has been steadily
increasing. On Jan. 1, this year, the
stock weavers, known as 64 squares, wan
nearly 900,000 pieces. Last Saturday, the
stock is said to have decreased to 720,000
pieces. Numerous plans were discussed
for further reducing the surplus stock
and finally partial curtailment was
agreed on. An arrangement was signed
by which 3,500,000 spindles are to re
main idle two days In each week for
thirteen weeks or their equivalent.
Among the mills signing this was the
Fail River Iron Works company’s mill,
controlled by the Borden interests. Be
ing himself a party Jp the curtailment
plan, It is reasonable to suppose that
Mr. Borden will now insist on its being
carried out as arranged. His purchase
of 750.000 pieces has therefore a stimulat
ing effect on the market in which he will
participate to a great extent.
The cloth purchased represents a cash
value of $961,000. It is understood that
the cloths have been purchased for the
American Printing company’s works,
which have a capacity of between 75,000
and 80,000 pieces per week. Mr. Heine
man. a prominent print cloth broker,
said today in commenting on the sale,
that it had been of vast importance to the
market. There had been an instant ral
lying of the buyers in eastern markets
and it was reasonable to suppose that
print cloth would advance very materi
ally before March. The sale provided a
ready relief for the present stock embar
rassment.
SLOW COLLECTIONS DID IT.
Orlando, Fla., Feb. 8.—Brown & Pll
lans, grocers of this city, made an as
signment this morning to Walter A.
Smith, cashier of the State Bank of Or
lando. The assets are considerably in
excess of the liabilities. Slow collections
caused the trouble.
TO BEGIN KNITTING AGAIN.
Troy, N. Y.. Feb. 8.—It Is reported thal
the Victor knitting mills a; Cohoes, which
has been shut down several weeks. wil»
resume operations this week, employing
900 bunds.# •
BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1897. NUMBER 20
WOMEN AREJNTERESTED
Urge Ratification of the Arbitra
tion T reaty.
AN OPEN CIRCULAR GIVEN
To the Women of the United States Regarding
the Measure.
EARNEST AND PROMPT ACTION
The Treaty Termed a Great Act of Christian
Civilization—To Enlist the Senators
and Congressmen Personally
Is Asked.
New York, Feb. 9.—The following cir
cular, which explains itself, was made
•public today:
To the Women of the United States.
We ask your earnest and prompt co
operation in urging upon the senate of the
United States that after full considera
tion, it should ratify the arbitration
treaty between this country' and Great
Britain and without amendments which
will cripple its efficiency.
The mothers, the wives and the homes
of our land have the deepest interest in
the substitution of law for war. In
times of conflict they are the keenest
sufferers and while the nation's honor
is dear to them, whatever tends to set
tle disputes by reason and law, rather
than by warfare, demands their heartiest
indorsement.
It is absolutely necessary' that the uni
versal opinion of the country, In favor of
this treaty should find expression. There
fore, we ask you, without delay, to write
personally to your senators, to hold meet
ings, to send petitions, and to aid by all
means In your power the completion of
this great act of Christian civilization.
(Signed)—Ellen M. Henrotln, Alice Free
man Palmer, Louisa Lee Schuyler, Jose
phine Shaw Lowell, Margaret Sangster,
Mary Mapes Dodge, Mary Low Dickin
son. Jeanette Gilder, Hanna Einesteln,
Grace C. Dodge, Mary Trautman, Can'
dace Wheeler, Elizabeth B. Custer, Marie
Louise Bobe, Maud Balilngton Booth.
Address, Julia H. Percy, secretary.
ONE WAS KILLED.
Train Robber's Career Cut Short By a
Messenger's Bullet—Another Escapes
With Money.
Kingman, Arizona, Feb. 9.—About 8:30
last evening two robbers attempted to
hold up the westbound pasenger train on
the Santa Fe line, sixty miles east of
here. After stopping the train they made
the fireman get off and uncouple the mail
and express cars. Messenger Sellers,
thinking that something was wrong, told
his assistant to get off the car on one side
with a shotgun, while he got off on the
other with a revolver. One of the robbers
was standing near the engine and the
messenger fired at him at short range.
The robber fell dead. The other robber
then compelled the fireman to get on the
engine again, and run the engine and two
express and mall cars up the road, where
It was stopped, and the. robbers made an
unsuccessful attempt to get into the ex
press car. The mall car was then en
tered and several registered packages
taken. The robber then disappeared In
the darkness. The dead robber was
taken to Peach Springs, but he has not
been identified.
Officers have gone from Kingman with
Indian trailers. It was snowing at the
time, but it Is now clear and his tracks
will be easily followed. The amount*
of money secured Is unknown.
TO BE INVESTIGATED.
Denver. Col., Feb. 9.—The Santa Fe
train robbery Is to be Investigated by the
postal authorities here. Chief Postof
fice Inspector McMiehen sent a detective
out to the scene of the robbery this after
noon. McMiehen says that from the in
formation he has, he believes the dead
robber to be Jack Musgrove, who was
concerned in the White Oaks, N. M., rob
bery some time ago.
BIENNIAf CONVENTION
Of District Grand Lodge No. 5, Inde
pendent Order B'Nai Brith at Balti
more—Officers Elected.
Baltimore, M. D., Feb. 9.—The twenty
fifth biennial convention of District
Grand Lodge, No. 5, Independent Order
of B’nai Brith. was called to order at
Royal Arcanum hall this morning. Del
egates were present from ledges in all the
states of the district of Maryland, Vir
ginia, North Carolina and South GaroKna,
Georgia and the District of Columbia.
The out-going officers made reports and
their successors w£re elected as follows:
President, J. H. Herts, Macon, Ga.; first
vice-president, Soloman Well, Goldsboro.
N. C.; second vice-president, Samuel Gals,
Washington, D. C.; secretary, Joseph
Saisbez, Baltimore; treasurer, Aaron
Goodwin, Baltimore; sergeant-at-arms, A.
L. Spandour, Norfolk, Va.
The principal business of the conven
tion will be to settle the endowment feat
ure of the organization. The sessions
will continue tomorrow and possibly
Thursday.
JOINT CELEBRATION.
Richmond, Va.. Feb. 9.—The ladles of
the Confederate Memorial Literary soci
ety met this afternoon and completed
arrangements for a joint celebration on
the 22d of thi3 month, Washington's
birthday, and the inauguration of Presi
dent Jefferson Davis. A reception will
be held at the Commonwealth club, at
which Mrs. George F. Pickett will re
ceive. The officers end other members
of the society will receive in full dress.
The rooms will be decorated, with con
v. federate .colors and after the banquet
^ confederate songs will be sung by persons
prominent In musical circles.
ONE FOUND GUILTY.
And Fifteen Other Seamen Yet to Btf
Tried for Murder.
London, Feb. 9.—Today's proceedings
In the trial of the first and second mates
of the British ship George T. Hay. who
■with fifteen of the crew of the vessel were
brought here on Jan. 8, charged with
causing the death of a seaman named
Bronston by ill-treatment during the voy
age of the ship from Mobile, Aug. 24, 1898,
to Rio Janeiro, where she arrived Nov.
22, last, resulted in the conviction of the
first mate, Frazer, who was found guilty
by ihe jury of having Inflicted unlaw
ful punishment upon Bronston.
The court postponed sentence upon
Frazer until the completion of the trial of
the second mate and the fifteen seamen,
which will take place tomorrow.
NEEDS BETTER DISCIPLINE.
London, Feb. 9.—Mr. Thomas Sexton.
antl-Parnellite. formerly member of the
house of commons for the north division
of Kerry, who resigned his seat last
year, has written a letter declining to
te-enter parliament. In the course of his
letter, Mr. Sexton says: “I am still con
vinced that the Irish party must have
better discipline before anything worth
laboring for can be obtained from the
house of commons even for the most pal
pable grievances of Ireland.’1
NO MIDDLE MEN
Wanted by the Beam Pool—Steel Rail
Pool Dissolved by Consent.
Pittsburg, Pa., Feb. 9.—The beam pool
has withdrawn all Commissions from
brokers and will hereafter sell no beams
to middlemen. The pool is now organ
ized on a basis like the rail pool, and Is
likely to be permanent. The $1.55 rate
will not be raised for some time.
It is reported that at a secret meeting
of the steel rail pool held in this city
yesterday, that the steel rail pool was
dissolved, the result of disagreement of
eastbrn firms. The Edgar Thomson
steel works at Braddock Is the only local
concern in the pool.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans. Feb. 9.—Today was de
voted to charity at the track and the
entire receipts, some $1,200, went to the
drouth scufferers in North Louisiana.
The weather was cloudy and raw and the
track heavy. Five favorites won and
the public beat the bookies.
Summaries:
First P,aee—Seven furlongs. Annie
Teuton, 9S (T. Burns). 8 to 5. won; The
Plutocrat, second; Seelbach, third. Time,
1:35%.
Second Race—Half mile. Nemo, 99
(Morse), even, won; Miss Hattie, second;
Octave, third. Time, :54.
Third Race—Mile and seventy yards.
Linnette, 103 (C. Reiff), 4 to 5, won; Jam
boree, second; Hano Belle, third. Time,
1:52.
Fourth Race—Mile and a furlong.
Saint Leo, 125 (Scott), 7 to 1, won; Brake
man, second; Mr. Dunlap, third. Time,
2:08%.
Fifth Race—One mile. John Conroy, 89
(Songer), 8 to 5, won; Connie Lee, second;
Sir John, third. Time, 1:48%.
Sixth Race—Seven furlongs. Martin,
107 (C. Reiff), 9 to 10, won; Renaud, sec
ond; Winslow, third. Time, 1:34%.
’FRISCO RESULTS.
Oakland, Cal., Feb. 9.—Weather fine;
track slow. All the favorites were beat
en but one.
First Race—Six furlongs, selling. Road
Runner, 112 (Freeman), 6 to 1, won; Soo
lad second. Monitor third. Time, 1:18%.
Second Race—Three and a half fur
longs. Count of Flanders 105 (Thorpe), 13
to 5, won; Don Luis second, On Gua Nita
third. Time, 0:14%.
Third race—Five and a half furlongs,
selling. Roltaiie, 113 (Thorpe), 7 to 1, won;
Woodland Belle second, Chlppe third.
Time, 1:10%.
Fourth Race—Mile, selling. Morte
Fonso, 106 (Thorpe), 8 to 5, won; Cabrillo
second, Ratisame third. Time, 1:14%.
Fifth Race—Five and a half furlongs.
Scotch Rose, 109 (Slaughter), 5 to 2, won;
Etta H. second. The Sinner third. Time,
1:09%.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Rejected, 106
(Thorpe), 12 to 1, won; Zoolein second.
Pecksniff third. Time, 1:18.
A RUMOR DISCREDITED.
St. Louis. Mo., Feb. 9.—Local plug to
bacco manufacturers discredit the story
sent from Detroit to the effect that
wholesale grocers in the middle west
states were forming a combination in
opposition to the American Tobacco com
pany, and regard the report as a stock
jobbing manipulation. Messrs. Liggett
Sc Meyers and J. T. Drummond, whose
names were mentioned in the dispatch,
deny that they are, or will hereafter, be
connected with any such combination.
ALL WELL ON BOARD.
Bermuda, Feb. 9.—The steamer Ohio,
which sailed from New York on Saturday
last with a party of tourists for a sail
through southern waters, arrived here
this morning with all well on board. The
Ohio will malic a brief stop here and
then sail for St. Thomas. She will visit
St. Kitts, Guadeloupe. Dominica, Marti
nique, Curacoa, San Domingo. Jamaica,
Progresso, Vera Cruz, Havana and
Brunswick, Ga.. returning to New YoTk
on March 22, after a run of 7,000 miles.
DEATH IN AN OIL MILL.
Raleigh. N. C.. Feb. 9—A negro boy
about 15 years old, was found dead in
the cotton seed room at the oil mill in this
city at a late hour lest night. It is sup
posed that he crawled into the room
Tuesday night and was suffocated. He
could not be identified positively, but one
boy says that the unfortunate youth told
him Tuesday that his name was Bob At
kinSon, that he lived near Selma, and
was going to Durham.
LACK OF WATER DID IT.
Milton, Fla.. Feb. 9.—The boiler of the
large saw mill plant of Simpson & co.,
at Bagdad, near here, hurst this morning
at 5 o'clock. Injuring two negro laborers,
Raul Raymond and Adam Riley. The
former died In two hours. A large water
tank, elevated fifty feet, was demolished
and the damage to the plant is considera
ble- The accident was caused by lack
of water in the boiler.
GREEK FLAG HOISTED.
London, Feb. 9.—In the house of com
mons today Mr. George N. Curzon, un
der foreign secretary, said that nothing
had been heard by the government of the
formation of a provisional government in
Crete. It is reported here that the Greek
flag has been hoisted at Retlmo, Crete,
and that order at that place is rapidly
being restored.
DEAD IN A PATROL BOX.
Pittsburg, Pa., Feb. 9.—Police Officer
John Harrison was found dead at 5:25
o'clock this morning, standing in the pa
trol box at the corner of Ninth street
and Liberty avenue, by Police Lieut.
| Crossln. The cause of his death has not
yet been ascertained, but it was due
probably to an electric shock or from
heart failure.
MET HARD LUCK.
London. Feb. 9.—The Australian
steamer Tergeste, Capt. Sutton, at Al
gerles, from New Orleans, lost her port
boats and a part of her deck load of wuod
on the passage.
GEN. SHELBY DYING.
Adrian, Mo.. Feb. 9.—Gen. Shelby Is
sinking rapidly. His death is expected
momentarily.
Two Pension-Bills Passed By the
House
BY DECISIVE MAJORITIES
• _
Over the Vetoes of His Excellency, the
.President.
GOVERNMENT PRINTERS REMEMBERED
Appropriations to Allow Them Leave of
Absence Granted—Immigration Bill
Agreed to the Third Time By
the Lower House.
Washington, Feb. 9.—Today, as yester
day, the senate spent nearly the whole
time of Its session in wrestling behind
closed doors over the arbitration treaty.
At 1 o'clock, on motion of Mr. Sherman,
chairman of the committee on foreign
relations, the galleries were cleared, the
doors were closed and the consideration
of the treaty was entered upon.
During the transaction of the routine
morning business the concurrent resolu
tion introduced yesterday by Mr. Petti
grew withdrawing from the president a
bill passed by both houses, In relation to
the timber culture law, was taken up
and passed. Mr. Hill, who first question
ed its legality, remarking that that ques
tion could be considered when the bill
again came before the senate, if the pres
ident should return it.
A resolution was agreed to Instructing
the judiciary committee to make In
quiries In the matter of Mr. Amidon,
whose nomination as district judge in
North Dakota, is before the senate for
confirmation.
A Joint resolution was offered and re
ferred, looking to the payment of some
$57,000 to employes of the government
printing office for leave of absence which
they have not had since 1887.
At 5:30 p. m. the senate adjourned until
tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
The president was over-ruled by the
house today in the matter of vetoes of
two pension bills. They were for the
benefit of Rachael Patton and Caroline
MeWatt, widows of soldiers who had
re-married and lost their second hus
bands. The bills were vetoed, the mes
sages stated, upon the ground that their
passage would establish a dangerous
precedent. Mr. Sulloway, (rep. of New
York), in charge of one of the bills, as
serted that the president had already
approved thirteen similar bills so that the
precedent was pretty well established.
The bill to pension Rachael Patton was
passed, “the objections of the president
notwithstanding,” by the vote of 137 to
60, and that to pension Caroline Mowatt
by the vote of 143 to 65.
After a brief debate the conference re
port on the immigration bill was agreed
to—217 to 31. This makefs the third dis
tinct proposition on that subject that
the house has passed.
Senate amendments were concurred in
to the bill giving preference rights for
purchases under the homestead law or
at private entry to bona fide purchasers
of swamp lands, voted to the state of
Mississippi in aid of the construction of
the Mobile and Ohio railroad and after
wards restored to the public domain.
Under the call of committees the fol
lowing measures were passed:
Joint resolution to elect John Marshall
Browne, of Maine, a member of the
board of governors of the national sol
diers’ homes.
Senate bill providing for the promo
tion of passed assistant surgeons in the
navy.
House bill imposing a penalty for the
unauthorized or misleading use of the
word “copyright.”
The house at 4:05 adjourned until tomor
row.
SENATE CONFIRMATION.
Washington, Feb. 9.—The senate to
day confirmed the nomination of F. W.
Kiekbusch, Jr., consul at Stettin, Ger
many.
DRAWN UP IN LINE
Are the Battleships Off Charleston—Press
Finds Difficulty In Obtaining Data
From On Shipboard.
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 9.—All efforts
made by newspaper correspondents to
board the warships off Charleston bar to
day were futile. The Fern came up to
the city for sail and provisions and the
Marblehead was lying off the battery,
but the other ships were strung out to
sea beyond the Jetties for a distance of
eight miles; the cruiser Columbia, which
is furthest out, is from sixteen to eighteen
miles from the city. *
Early this mofning some signalling was
done from the flagship New York, and
In consequence the ships began to move
from the north to the south of the har
bor. The battleship Maine anchored a
little to the south of the lightship, which
stands just six miles out from Fort Sum
ter. The Fern lies behind the Maine;
the New York is a half mile further
south. Half way across the main chan
nel is the monitor, Amphitrlte, and be
yond her out to sea is the Columbia.
It is supposed here that the ships have
taken these positions with a view to ef
fectually guarding the south entrance
to the harbor, and that future arrivals,
the Indiana and Massachusetts, for in
stance will be placed to the north. The
Dolphin was nowhere in evidence today,
and it is believed that—she has sailed
south, possibly to relieve the Newark at
the mouth of the St. John river. The
battleships Indiana and Massachusetts
are expected to arrive off the bar tomor
row morning.
It is known that the Vesuvius has been
ordered away from League Island and as
she is to be the blockade runner it is
thought that she will coqtie down the
coast under her ftjyn ordeita after all the
big ships Are in position and try to run
into the harbor undetected.
Every effort has been made by press
representatives to get some detailed
statement of the injuries done the ships
during the storm, but it has been of no
avail. The Marblehead, when up to the
city, gave little evidence of injury. Her
superstructure was battered somewhat,
but as one stood upon her dea£ she looked
little the worse for wear* k'
Charleston^ Si C., Fete; O.-eAt a meet
ing of the citjt ^ouncil of CW}|rleBton held
j tonight an invitation was'extended to
1 the governor of South Carolina and to
the general assembly to visit the city on
the 18th, when Secretary Herbert and
Admiral Bunce and the officers of the
fleet are to be entertained by the citizens
and commercial bodls. A special train
is placed at the disposal of the governor
and the legislature by the South Carolina
and Georgia railroad. This will be util
ized in bringing the visitors to Charles
ton from Columbia. On the 18th a public
dinner will be given by the chamber of
commerce and among the guests will be
Secretary Herbert, of the navy; Admiral
Bunce and other distinguished guests. A
public reception will be held by Mayor
Smyth and at night a ball will be given
the visitors.
A VALUABLE GIFT.
Yesterday at noon Sheriff O’Brien and
his men were greatly surprised and de
lighted when the express company de
livered them two magnificent blood
hounds. No intimation had been given
them of an impending donation of this
character and their surprise was only
exceeded by their pleasure. The hounds
were presented by Mr. J. A. Dudley, of
Clanton, who has only the finest of this
class of criminal tracers. The dogs,
which at once became the pride of all
those attached to the Sheriff's office, were
placed In the kennel in the jail yard,
where they will remain for the time be
ing.
UNCLE SAM'S REPRESENTATIVE.
Rome, Feb. 9.—It is announced that W.
S.'Jones, United States consul general
here, will represent the United tSates at
the international conference which is to
be held at Venice, to consider means of
preventing the spread to Europe and
America of the bubonic plague now
raging in India.
NEW YORK'S APPROPRIATION.
Albany, N. Y., Feb. 9.—Gov. Black has
signed Senator Mullins’ bill appropriat
ing $12,000 for the representation of the
state of New York at the Tennessee
Centennial International exhibition at
Nashville.
STRIKERS ATTACK ’OLICE
Two Men Killed and Nineteen
Wounded.
RESULT OF THE FIGHT
Police Greatly Outnumbered and Only Timely
Assistance Prevented a Great
Loss of Life.
Hamburg, Feb. 9.—Ever since the de
cision of a majority of the men who took
part In the great strike here of dock la
borers and others employed In the ship
ping trade to return to work, there has
been much discontent among the men
and those who watched the situation
closely could see that trouble was brew
tr.v The defeat of the strikers was due
m?'lnly to lack of funds, and they felt
V(,v bitter that they were compelled to
leturn to work without having in the least
benefited their condition. Tonight the
bad feeling among the men culminated in
a bitter fight between a large number of
the men who had betn on strike and the
police who, for several days past, had
been anticipating trouble. Before the
disturbance was quieted, two men were
killed and nineteen seriously wounded.
Among the latter are five policemen.
It Is not known exactly how the fight
ing started, but one report has it that it
originated in a dispute between some
men who were arguing as to the correct
ness of the decision to return to work
and who finally came to blows. When
the police attempted to intervene the men
abandoned their own quarrel and com
bin'd to thrash the policemen, the fight
ing soon assuming wide proportions. An
other story is that 'the police were the ag
gressors, however this may be, the fight
ing became very serious, revolvers and
sabres being freely used.
The police were rapidly getting the
worst of the contest, they being greatly
outnumbered by the raging mob of riot
ers, whose numbers were quickly swelled,
not only by genuine workingmen, but,
by the hordes of vicious idlers about the
harbor, who were only too anxious under
the circumstances to engage with their
natural enemies, the police. The latter
at first attempted to get the mob to dis
perse by the use of mild means, but these
proving unavailing, sabres were drawn
and orders given to charge the mob. The
rioters, some of whom were armed with
revolvers, while others had bludgeons
and stones as weapons, held their ground
tenaciously and made a desperate resist
ance, which the police were unable to
overcome.
Eventually, reinforcements were hur
ried to the scone in response to the urgent
call of the officer In command of the po
lice, and finally the rioters were dispersed
with great difficulty.
Later, crowds of workingmen gathered
In St. Paul, Wilhelmsburg and Altona, all
of which places are practically parts of
Hamburg, and threatened vengeance on
the police. The latter fearing there would
be another outbreak, went In strong
force to the places named and compelled
obedience to their orders that the streets
be cleared. They also cleared the Btreets
in the region of the harbor. It Is general
ly believed that If the rioters had been
better armed, the police would not have
been able to handle them and that it
would have been necesasry to call in the
military for assltance. Most of the In
jured were removed to the hlspltals.
Ninety-one of the rioters were arrested.
SQUABBLE IN MISSISSIPPI.
Jackson, Miss., Feb. 9.—The republican
executive committee recognized by Jim
Hill, colored national committee from
Mississippi, as the only true committee,
mot here today for the purpose of put
ting out an address In reply to one re
cently issued bj* John R. Lynch, to dis
cuss the advisability of establishing a
republican paper at the capital and Inci
dentally to apportion the loaves and
Ashes. The scramble for places is In
teresting in view of the fact that there
are really two republican parties in the
state and each faction has a score of
candidates for every office worth hav
ing. The faotlon leaders will weed them
down to stand thus, leaving one repre
sentative from each side to press claims
for the places. Hill is recognized by
Mr. Hanna as the dispenser of patron
age. but John R. Lynch is wily and has
a big pull at Washington, so that his
followers hope he will be able to tjecure
a share of the spoils.
UNDER ADVISEMENT.
Toledo, O., Feb. 9.—Arguments In con
nection with the petition of Arbuckle
Bros, and Thomas J. Kuhn for a receiver
for the Woolson Spice company, which ,
have bc-en In progress In Sudge 'MoiTts' 1
court for the last weA, were concluded I
today. Judge Morris took the case under
advisement and it will be at least two
weeks before he will give his decision. 1
THE OUTLOOKS BRIGHTER
Constitutional Convention Gain
ing Ground,
_J
THE CAUCUS^ABANDONED
* ©__
-t
And the Bill Wili* iPne Up In the House
3 day.
r—
THE POL19 ^COMMISSION BILL
v
Receives an Adverse Report From the Ju
diciary Committee— A New Revenue
Law Being Acted Upon In the
House—Full Text. Etc.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 9.—(Special.)~
The friends of the constitutional conven
tion proposition have been on the alert
since Monday and insist that their work
has been effective. They claim to have
assurances tonight that the senate is all
right and that they have a safe major
ity in the house.
The Idea of holding a party caucus on
the measure has been abandoned and the
bill providing for the convention will be
called up in the house on Its merits, prob
ably tomorrow.
AN ADVERSE REPORT.
The police commission bill came up
before the judiciary committee tonight.
After hearing a thorough discussion the
committee went into executive session
and reported adversely on the bill.
Montgomery, Feb. 9.—(Special.)—The
house spent practically all of Its session
today in the consideration of the proposed
new revenue law, which was prepared by
the special committee which sat during
the recess. The bill was Introduced by
Mr. Meador, the chairman of the commit
tee, and as will be easily understood, Is
one of the most important measures that
the house will be called on to consider.
A number of amendments to the bill
were adopted, none of them, however,
being of any vital Importance to the
proposed system. The bill, as amended,
avas passed by a handsome majority.
The following is the text of the bill,
with the amendments:
A BILL
To Be Entitled An Act to Amend the
Revenue Laws of the Staite of Ala
bama.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the general
assembly of Alabama, That sections 1,
2, 3 2 and 4, of an act entitled "an act
to amend the revenue laws of the state
of Alabama, approved Feb. 18, 1895,"be
and the same are hereby repealed.
(This repeals the boards of tax asses
sors established by Gov. Oates' adminis
tration two years ago.)
Sec. 2. Be it further enacted, That the
tax assessor shall be entitled to receive
from the tax collector, out of the first
moneys collected for the state, giving
him duplicate receipts therefor, one of
which receipts shall be forwarded to the
auditor by the tax collector, the follow
ing commissions on the state taxes,
whether general or special, assessed by
him (but not on each separately), to-wlt:
In counties where the state taxes assess
ed. do not exceed twelve thousand dol
lars, the rate of commission shall be
8 per cent, on the first thousand. 4 per
cent, on the second thousand, and 2 per
cent, on the remainder. In counties
where the state taxes assessed exceed
twelve thousand dollars, the commission
shall be the same up to twelve thousand
dollars and on all above twelve thousand
dollars, one and one-half per cent, up to
sixty thousand dollars, and one per cent,
on the remainder. He shall also be en
titled to receive from the tax collector the
same rates of commissions on the amount
of county 'taxes, whether general or
special (but not on each separately), reg
ularly assessed; carried up or extended
on the assessment book, giving duplicate
receipts to the tax collector for all
amounts so paid him. He shall receive
5 per cent, of the amount of general state
taxes upon property assessed by him.
which has eseupted taxation In the previ
ous year, such previous assessment not
having been made while he was tax as
sessor. He shall also be allowed a com
mission of 3 per cent, for making lists and
keeping book of poll taxes on amount of •
such taxes, which shall be paid out of the
poll taxes collected, but no commissions
shall be allowed on polls which are as
certained to be errors by the court of
county commissioners, or other court cf
like jurisdiction, on the report of errors
submitted to such court by the tax col
lector.
Sec. 3. Be it further enacted. That f ir
making the demand on the tax payer for
his list of assessments, and for each as
sessment of property to owner unknown,
to be charged to the tax- payer, or proper
ty- assessed and collected with the taxes,
the assessor shall be entitled to 50 cents,
to "be entered upon the assessment, but
the Assessor shall be only entitled to one
demand fee, against each tax payer, al
though such tax payer may he assessed
a poll tax and also a property tax. He
Shall be entitled to a fee of 25 cents for
each notice issued from the commission
er's court or court of like jurisdiction,
and served or mailed by him. the same
to be charged to the tax payer, if the
case made against such tax payer be sus
tained. and to be added to such tux pay
er’s assessment, but In cases -where the
state Tails before the court of county
commissioners, he shall receive no fees.
For serving each subpoena for state wit
ness, Issued by order of the court of coun
ty commisslone-rs, or other court of like
jurisdiction, the tax assessor shall be en
titled, to receive twenty-five cents, to be
taxed against the defendant and collected
with the taxes, if the state prevails; and
he is entitled to a fee of 50 cents, from
each delinquent, who, at any time, after
the 1st day of January, makes his return
at the office of the assessor, whether he
has made any demand on such delinquent
or not, and assessors of Mobile and Mont
gomery shall be permitted to charge a
fee after their sittings.
Sec. 4. Be it further enacted, That the
tisressor shall give, at least, twenty days
notice bv advertisement In a newspuper,
If *there'be one published In the county,
and by bills posted at five or more pub
lic places In eaclK election precinct, of
the time when, and the place where he
will attend to assess the taxes. He shall
visit each precinct twice, at least thirty
days apart, and remain there one day
each time, from 8 o’clock a. ra. until 4
o’clock p. m. Upon failure of the tax as.
srssor *« give the notice required by this
section, nr te attend any appointment ’
made by him, In any precinct, he shall,
after legal notice, fill new appointments,
or forfeit all claims to fees from such
persons In suc-h precincts as were disap
pointed by his non-attendance, but he
shall not he entitled to fees for their fail
ure to attend the second appointment
from persons who attend the first. But
the assessor, at his second appointment,
in cities or towns of 1,000 inhabitants,
or over, shall remain at the place of ap
pointment for one week, for the purpose
of assessing taxes: and the assessor of
Jefferson shall keep his office open at the
court house during the year, and the
assessor of Barbour, Lowndes and Mar
engo counties tiiali keep an office open
at some place In the county towns of said
counties, from the 1st of October of each
year, to the first of the following January,
and all assessors shall keep their offices
open during December, and the assessor
of Marengo shall keep his office open
from Oct. 1 to Jan. 1.
Sec. 5. Bo it further enacted, That it is
the duty of every person liable to taxa
tion in each election precinct, to attend
in person before the assessor, by the first
day of the second appointment in the
precinct of the tax payer's residence, and
then and there render unto the assessor,
under oath, a full and complete list of all!
the property of which he was the owner,
or in which he had any interest what
ever, or of which he was trustee, or agent,
on the first day of October of that year.
Sec. 0. Be it further enacted. That hav
ing- failed to procure upon verbal or writ
ten, demand his list of taxable property,
before the first day of February, the as
sessor shall ascertain from inquiry or
otherwise, the property and other sub
jects of taxation upon which such person,
is liable to be taxed, to the best of his
judgment, and add 1 per centum of such
value to the same as a penalty, for non
assessment, which penalty shall not be
remitted except upon proof made that the
delinquent tax payer was absent from the
state, and had no resident agent therein
during the time for rendering assess
ments, or when such tax payer labors
under disability of minority, or is a luna
tic, or upon proof that he was unable to
meet the assessor at his appointments by*
reason of sickness.
Sec. 7. Be it further enacted. That
whenever the assessor while performing
the duties of his office, knows of, or
learns of any property, real or personal,
subject to taxation in his county, the
owner of which he does not know and
which is not embraced in any return,
made him. prior to the first of February,
by any tax payer, he shall assess the
value to owner unknown according to the
best information which he can obtain,
and shall add to the actual cash value
thereof one per centum as a penalty for
non-assessment, which said penalty shall
not be remitted by the court of county
comm'ssioners. except upon proper show
ing by the tax payer that he was absent
from the state, and had no agent in,
the state during the time for assessment,
or that such tax payer labored under thei
disability of minority, was Insane, or was
disabled by sickness from attending the
tax assessor's appointments; and when
the tax assessor finds any lot. tract or
parcel of land that has escaped taxation,
it shall be his duty to assess such land to
owner unknown, with a brief statement
as to Its situation relative to the lands
of the nearest known owner, and in any
notice or advertisement or motion for a
decree ot gale, it shall he described as so
assessed, and the assessor shall be en
titled to the same fees for making such,
assessments as for demands made by him
on tax payers. In such ease lands lying
In one body shall be assessed as a whole,
unless the assessor has reason to believe
that they belong to different owners, in
w-hich case all the lands lying In one
body apd supposed to belong to the same
owner must be Included In one assess
ment; and no fee shall be allowed the
assessor for any assessment made in dis
regard of this provision, but the assess
ment is not for that reason Invalid. Hut
no lands shall be assessed to owner un
known until the assessor shall have made
a demand upon the person, If resident of
the county, to whom said lands or prop
erty have been assessed, and said assess
or shall make diligent Inquiry to ascer
tain the name of the owner of said lands
or other property.
See. 8. Be it further enacted,
That the taxable property and
other subjects of taxation and the
property exempt from taxation shall .
be entered by the assessor upon !
a blank assessment list, in the form pre
scribed by the auditor, with a full .de
scription of all property shown therein;
and the assessor shall ascertain the value
of each item or subject of taxation, and
shall enter the same In an appropriate
column upon such assessment lists, and
the assessor shall also enter, In appro
priate columns, upon such lists, the
amount of state, county and special taxes
on the aggregate of all real and personal
property, separately.
Sec. 9. Be It further enacted. That Bueh
assessment lists shall be, by the assessor,
delivered to tbo court of c unty com
missioners, qr other court of like Jurisdic
tion, for examination in connection with
the book of asstsments, together with
such supplemental assessments "as he
may make on or before the first Monday
In June of each year, for examination by
such court.
Sec. 10. Be It further enacted. That the
assessor each year, while makiug his as
sessments, shall note in the poll tax
books, and on the assessment lists, the
township and range, or school district.
In which each person liable for poll tax
rtsides; and he shall also notf in each
poll tax book the number of each race,
in each township or school district, lia
ble to poll tax.
Sec. 11. Be It further enacted, that for
the services rendered by the assessor,
In respect to the land book, if he has writ
ten the book in ink and entered the names
of all tax payera in those cases where two
or more parties pay on same tract of
land, he is entitled to compensation to b?
allowed by the court of county commis
sioners, and paid by the county as fol
lows: In counties whose population does
not exceed 10.000 Inhabitants, r.ot more
than $50; In counties whose population
exceeds 10,000 Inhabitants and does not
exceed 20,000, not more than $75: In coun
ties whose population exceeds 20.000 In
habitants and does not exceed 30,000. not
more than $100; In counties whose popula
tion exceeds 30,000 inhabitants and doe3
not exceed 40,000, not more than $123: In
counties whose population exceeds 40.000
Inhabitants and does not exceed 60.000,
not more than $150; in counties whose
population excods 60,000 Inhabitants, not
more than $200.
Sec. 12. Be It further enacted. That sec
tions 5, 6. 7. S. 0. 10, 11, 12. 13, 30. 31. 32. 33,
34 and 3.5, of an act, entitled "an act to
amend the revenue laws of the state of
Alabama, approved Feb. IS, 1895." be and
the same are hereby repealed.
Sec. 13. Be it further enacted. That for
the performance of their duties under this
act, the court of county comm!-isoners,
or other courts having like jurisdiction In
each county, shall hold regular terms on
the first Monday In May and the second
Monday in June, of each year, and such
adjourned and special terms as may bo
necessary; and such terms regular ad
journed and special, may continue until
the business of the court has been com
pleted.
Sec. 14. Be It further enacted, That the
judge of probate, at the term of such
court, commencing on the first Monday In
June, shall deliver to the court th» hook
of assessments, the poll tax bo 'k. and all
lists of assessments as received by him
from the assessor; and the court shall
then proceed to examine the same, and
If they are prepared according to law,
*i>p court shall accept Them; hut the court
must refuse to accept any assesment lists
not returned in he manner prescribed by
law, unless it shall satisfactorily appear
that the prolonged absence, or the nonBIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1897. NUMBER 21
THE RESULT^ ANNOUNCED
Formal Count of the Electoral
Vote Had.
NO SENSATIONAL EVENTS.
Occurred To Mar the Solemn Proceedure of
Casting Up the Returns.
HILL AND TURPIE REMAINED AWAY
Morgan Formally Withdraws His Nicara
gua Canal Bill, But Gives Due No
tice of What May Be Expected
Agricultural Appropriations.
Washing-ton, Feb. 10.—The house Joined
today with the senate in witnessing the
count of the electoral vote for president
and vice-president of the United States
for the term beginning March 4, 1897, and
after the announcement of the result, ad
journed until tomorrow. The votes of
the several states were read in turn by
the tellers—Senators Lodge (rep. Mass.),
and Blackburn (dem. Ky.), and Repre
sentatives Grosvenor (rep. O.), and Rich
ardson (dem. Tenn.), and the result stated
by Vice-President Stevenson, who presid
ed over the Joint convention. It was that
McKinley had received 271 votes for pres
ident and Bryan 176; that Mr. Hobart had
received 271 votes for vice-president, Mr.
Sewail 149, and Mr. Watson 27. It was
stated that this was a sufficient declara
tion in law of the election of Messrs. Mc
Kinley and Hobart for the term stated as
president and vice-president respective
ly
The proceedings were witnessed by an
Immense crowd of spectators that filled
all the galleries, but without the crush in
the building that has marked previous
Similar occasions.
♦ The spectators of the count were largely
the members of congress’ families
and their intimate friends, the galleries,
by resolution, having been reserved for
their use. One section of about 200 seats
was thrown open to the public. The
abandonment by Representative Murray,
of South Carolina, of his previously an
nounced intention to object to the count
ing of the vote of that state had the effect
of decreasing general interest in the pro
ceedings.
, It fell to Mr. Grosvenor’s lot to an
nounce the 9 votes of South Carolina for
Bryan and Sewail. As he did so an ex
pectant silence fell on the assembly, but
pot a whisper of protest was heard. Mr.
Grosvenor declared that the certificate
appeared in proper form, and it was ac
cepted.
In the hour prior to the assembling of
the Joint convention the fortifications and
the postofflce appropriation bills were re
ported and placed on the calendar.
The fortification bill carries an appro
priation of $9,178,328, or upwards of $9,
000,000 below the estimates. No new
works are authorized, the policy adopted
in the Fiftieth congress of continuing
present projects being adhered to.
The postofflce appropriation bill carries
an appropriation of $95,611,714, being $1,
903,697 below the estimates, and $3,040,
150 greater than the amount for the
present fiscal year.
There is an increase in the allowance
for the delivery service and also for let
ter carriers In new free delivery offices.
The members of the senate headed by
Sergeant-at-Arms Bright ,and Asssist
ant Layton, appeared at the main door on
the north side a few minutes before 1
o’clock and were announced by Door
keeper Glenn. Following the vice-presi
dent and Secretary of the Senate Cox,
came two of the doorkeepers carrying
the mahogany boxes containing the seal
ed election returns in the several states.
The nestors of the senate, Messrs. Mor
rill, of Vermont, and Sherman, of Ohio,
headed the procession and took the seats
immediately in front of the speaker and
to his right. The other senators, the
representatives rising to their feet, found
their places In the first four rows on the
east side of the hall.
At one minute before 1 o’clock Vice
President Stevenson called the Joint con
vention to order, Speaker Reed sitting at
his left and Senators Lodge, and Black
burn, and Representatives Grosvenor and
Richardson, the tellers of their respective
houses, in front at the clerk’s desk. Mr.
Stevenson said:
“Tiffe senate and house of representa
tives have met together in Joint session
pursuant to the constitution and laws
of the United States, on this day appoint
ed for opening of the certificates and
counting of the votes of electors for
president and vice-president of the Unit
ed States. The certificate of the state of
Alabama will be read by the tellers.”
Senator Blackburn then read the cer
tificate of the vote of the Alabama elect
ors In full and the result announced by
him—11 votes for William J. Bryan, of
Nebraska, for president, and 11 votes for
Arthur Sewail, of Maine, for vice-presi
dent.
senator snerman—i move, Mr. presi
dent, that the reading of the formal cer
tificate be omitted In the case of the
remaining states.
The vice-president—Unless objection is
made, the certificates of the remaining
states will not be read, but the result
will be announced by the tellers after
they have satisfied themselves of the
correctness of the returns.
The tellers, then, In rotation, announced
the votes of the several states. The en
velope In each case was handed to the
tellers, opened and the certificates ex
amined. This required a minute or more.
There were no surprises In the announce
ments, the electors having voted as it
was expected they would when chosen
last November. Mr. Grosvenor’s state
ment that California had cast an electoral
vote for “Arthur J. Sewall, of Maine,
for vice-president of the United States”
evoked several questions as to the ac
curacy of the "J.,” but no formal action
was taken.
A laugh was raised at the expense of
Senator Lodge, who announced the vote
of the state of Mlssourt as that of the
state of William McKinley, which It was
not at all, its vote having gone to Bryan.
It also fell to Mr. Grosvenor to an
nounce the vote of Ohio, which he did
with a sense of satisfaction, manifest to
all.
The call of the states having been com
pleted, the vice-president said the tellers
would announce the result of the vote.
This was done by Senator Lodge and
Jianded to uie vice-president. The vote
by states was:
Alabama—Bryan, 11; Sewall, 11.
Arkansas—Bryan, 8; Sewall, 5; Wat
Eon, 3.
California—McKinley, 8; Bryan, 1; Ho
bart, 8; Sewall, 1.
Colorado—'Bryan, 4; Sewall, 4.
Connecticut—McKinley, 6; Hobart, 8.
Delaware—McKinley, 3; Hobart, 3.
Florida—Bryan, 4; Sewall, 4,
Georgia—Bryan, 13; Sewall, 13.
Idaho—Bryan, 3; Sewall, 3.
Illinois—McKinley, 24; Hobart, 24.
Indiana—McKinley, 15; Hobart, 15.
Iowa—McKinley, 13; Hobart, 13.
Kansas—Bryan, 10; Sewall, 10.
Kentucky—McKinley, T2; Bryan, 1;
Hobart, 12; Sewall, 1.
Louisina—Bryan, 8; Sewall, 4; Wat
son, 4.
Maine—‘McKinley, 6; Hobart, 6.
Maryland—McKinley, 8; Hobart, 8.
Massachusetts—McKinley, 15; Hobart,
15.
Michigan—McKinley,. 14; Hobart, 14.
Minnesota—McKinley, 9; Hobart, 9.
Mississippi—Bryan, 9; Sewall, 9.
Missouri—Bryan, 17; Sewall, 13; Wat
son, 4.
Montana—Bryan, 3; Sewall, 2; Watson,
1.
Nebraska—Bryan, 8; Sewall, 4; Wat-'on,
4.
Navada—Bryan, 3; Sewall, 3.
New Hampshire—McKinley, 4; Ho
bart, 4.
New Jersey—McKinley, 10; Hobart, 10.
New York—McKinley, 36; Hobart, 36.
North Carolina—Bryan, 11; Sewall, 6;
Watson, 6.
North Dakota—McKinley, 3; Hobart, 3.
Ohio—McKinley, 23; Hobart, 23.
Oregon—McKinley, 4; Hobart, 4.
Pennsylvania—McKinley, 32; Hobart,
32.
Rhode Island—McKinley, 4; Hobart, 4.
South Carolina—Bryan, 9; Sewall, 9.
South Dakota—Bryan, 4; Sewall, 2;
Watson, 2.
Tennessee—Bryan, 12; Sewall, 12.
Texas—Bryan, 15; Sewall, 15.
Utah—Bryan. 3; Sewall, 2: Watson, 1.
Vermont—McKinley, 4; Hobart, 4.
Virginia—Bryan, 12; Sewall, 12.
Washington—Bryan, 4; Sewall, 2; Wat
son, 2.
West Virginia—McKinley, 6; Hobart, 6.
Wisconsin—McKinley, 12; Hobart, 12.
Wyoming—Bryan, 3; Sewall, 2; Wat
son, 1.
Totals—McKinley, 271; Bryan, 176; Ho
bart, 271; Sewall, 149; Watson, 27.
The vice-president said:
The state of the vote for president of
the United States as delivered by the tel
lers to the presidnt of the senate is as
follows:
The whole number of electors appoint
ed to vote for president of the United
States is 447, of which a majority is 224.
William McKinley, of the state of Ohio,
has received for president of the United
States 271 votes.
William J. Bryan, of the state of Ne
braska, has received 176 votes.
The vote for vice-president of the
United States is as follows:
The whole number of electors appoint
ed to vote for a'vice-president of the
United States is 447, of which a majority
is 224.
Garrett A. tioDart, or me state in
Jersey, has received 271 votes.
Arthur Sewall, of the state of Maine,
has received 149 votes.
Thomas E. Watson, of the state of
Georgia, has received 27 votes.
This announcement of the state of the
vote by the president of the senate is^
by law, a sufficient declaration that Wil
liam McKinley, of the state of Ohio, is
elected president of the United States,
and that Garrett A. Hobart, of the state
of New Jersey, is elected vice-president
of the United States, each for the term
beginning March 4, 1897.
The count of the electoral vote hav
ing been announced and the result de
clared, the joint convention is dissolved
and the senate will now return to its
chamber.
The statement of the vice-president
was followed by the applause on the
floor and in the galleries. As the sena
tors filed out of the hall, the representa
tives again rose and remained standing
until they had all left the apartment.
While those were going out the galleries
emptied themselves, the whole function
ing having occupied just fifty-six min
utes.
The house at 1:55 o’clock adjourned un
til tomorrow.
IN THE SENATE.
Before the senate left its chamber to
day to participate with the house of rep
resentatives in the solemn formality of
counting the electoral votes for presi
dent and vice-president of the United
States, the only matter which came up
for consideration was Mr. Tillman’s bill
"amplifying and classifying” the exist
ing law as to the right of state authori
ties to seize intoxicating liquor brought
into the state.
Mr. Tillman explained that its purpose
was to give to every state and territory
the right to control the liquor traffic with
in their own borders, in its own way,
without interference from the federal
Judiciary or any outside source. It was,
he said, to amplify and clarify existing
law.
Mr. V£st, (dem. of Missouri), said that
he also would be compelled to vote
against the bill as going a step in ad
vance of any legislation ever had in this
country in restriction of the right of
congress to regulate commerce among
the states.
The effect of the pending bill, he said,
was to confine every resident of the state
of South Carolina to the use of liquor
distilled in that state and so create a
monopoly.
i eonress tnat, said Mr. Tillman.
"Then, that is a principle which I shall
not indorse,” Mr. Vest exclaimed.
The vice-president interrupted the dis
cussion at ten minutes before 1 o’clock
and directed the sergeant-at-arms to pro
ceed to the execution of the order of the
senate relative to the Joint session of the
senate and the house for the purpose of
opening and counting the votes of the
electors for president and vice-president
of the United States, the vice-president
attended by the secretary of the senate
and officials bearing the boxes which con
tained the certificates, placed himself at
the head of the procession of senators,
which took its way over to the hail of the
house of representatives. Two senatqrs
only remained in the chamber—Hill, of
New York, and Turpie, democrat, of In
diana.
After the senate rturned to its chamber
the Nicaraguan canal bill came up as
unfinished business, and Mr. Morgan
(dem. Ala.) recognizing the Impossibility
of its passage at this session, withdrew
it, giving notice, however, that he would
introduce it at an extra sesison and would
press it to a vote. He made a long last
speech upon it. in which be imputed the
obstacles which the canal project had
met to British intervention. And he
warned Mr. Sherman, as the secretary of
state under the next administration, that
if he had the combined wisdom and skill
of a Metternich and a Tallyrand, he
would, in any negotiations for a civil
treaty, be overmatched by "those thlm
ble-riggling little republics” of Central
America, that would conspire with the
British people and with the British ad
visers in the United States to beat him.
Hinting at, the arbitration treaty, Mr.
Morgan decided the idea of Great Britain
having thrown her sword away. She
asked "what had occurred that Great
Britain should smoothe our hair the right
way and that we should submit to her
caresses?”
After the Nicaraguan canal bill had
thus been taken out of the way, the bank
ruptcy bill came to the front as "the un
finished business.” It, however, went over
till tomorrow.
The agricultural appropriation bill was
then taken up and passed, after a lively
discussion, in which Mr. Vest (dem. Mo)
held up to ridicule the secretary of agrfi
culture.
At 5:30 p. m. the senate adjourned until
tomorrow.
AN UNFORTUNATE ACCIDENT
Occurred Board the Battleship
Maine.
A ONE-POUND CARTRIDGE
Exploded, Seriously Injuring a Sergeant and
Two Privates.
DOLPHIN TO RUN THE BLOCKADE
Searchlights Flashed Over the Water Until
a Late Hour Seeking the Vessel, But
She Failed to Appear — Recep
tions to Secretary Herbert.
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 10—A serious ac
cident occurred on board the battleship
Maine yesterday, but it was kept quiet
until today. This was rendered possible
by the fact that the ships are some six
teen miles away from the city and out
at sea. While a crew consisting of First
Sergeant Wagner' and Privates Senman.
and Hardin were loading the one-pound
gun of the Maine’s secondary battery
with a one-pound calibre cartridge, the
catridge exploded, injuring First Sergt.
Wagner on the right hand, tearing the
flesh from the bones. Part of the shell
struck Hardin in the leg and hasn’t yet
been extricated. The men are painfully
rather than seriously hurt. Senman was
Injured about the face.
The Indiana and Massachusetts have
not Joined the fleet. It was learned to
day that the maneuvers are to begin to
once and the Dolphin, which it was
thought yesterday had gone south, is
probably to act bb the blockade runner.
It may be that her first attempt to get
into harbor past the battleships will be
made tonight.
This morning a committee of citizens in
charge of Collector Bryan, called upon
Admiral Bunce to learn, his pleasure re
garding the entertainments which are
to be given the fleet by the city of Charl
eston.
It is of course Impossible to obtain
definite information regarding Admiral
Bunce’s plans, but it Is generally believ
ed here today that the dispatch boat Dol
phin is now engaged in an attempt to
run Into Charleston harbor undetected
by the fleet. The Dolphin sailed south
ward Monday evening and it is said that
Lieut. Commander Glover, who Is in
charge of her, was Instructed by the ad
miral to make the attempt to run the
blockade. The searchlights of the squad
ron were kept flashing across the sea
until late last night, but the Dolphin
did not put in an appearance. The ships
held their positions of yesterday all to
day, the men on the various vessels en
gaging the several hours in exercising
their secondary batteries. Towardsnightw
fail signals were hoisted by the flag
ship and in response to them the Aitl
phitrtte, Marblehead and Columbia mov
ed further out to sea and to the south
ward. The stretch of water covered by
the battleships is thus extended for a dis
tance of more than ten miles.
From the steeple of St. Michael's
church tonight the flashlights of the war
ships may be observed as they cast from
the paths of light up and down the coast
and out to sea. It is supposed that the
fleet is engaged in an effort to detect the
Dolphin. Neither the Indiana nor the
Massachusetts joined the fleet today,
though it is said that both vessels are ex
pected to coal at Port Royal tomorrow.
The Newark, which has been engaged
on police duty at the mouth of the> St.
John’s river for some days, is now coal
ing at the same place. This has given
rise to the rumor that the Newark will
Join the fleet off Charleston tomorrow.
Mayor Smyth and a committee of re
ception and entertainment visited Admir
al Bunce, on the flagship New York, at
noon today and extended the privileges of
the city to the fleet. The admiral, his
staff and the fleet officers were invited to
attend a banquet of the chamber of com
merce on Feb. 18, to meet Secretary Her
bert, also to attend a public reception to
Secretary Herbert on that day and a
ball on the 19th Inst. Admiral Bunce
expressed his gratification at the atten
tions shown and said he would endeavor
to accept the invitations. All the ships
in, this lo-cailty that can enter the har
bor will do so before the secretary’s ar
rival. The admiral would not say much
of the details of the blockade, but said
that he anticipated a most Instructive
and valuable season here.
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 10.—It was learn
ed here tonight through the postofflee au
thorities that the Dolphin had gone to
Jacksonville and that she is consequent
ly not acting as the blockade runner to
Admiral Bunce’s fleet, for the present at
least. It 1s none the less true, however,
that the entire squadron off Charleston
bar is engaged tonight in blockade duty.
Either the manoeuvers are being made
preparatory to the comingofthe Vesuvius
or else the Marblehead Is acting for the
time being as the blockade runner. The
men of that cruiser when they were
ashore expressed the hope that this work
would be assigned them and it now seems
possible that their wishes have been
gratified.
CONVICTED OF SWINDLING.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 10.—A. E. Drought,
ex-recelver of the Florida Midland iail
road, was convicted here today of swind
ling. He was sentenced to twelve months
on the county chain gang, with the alter
native of paying J1.000 tine. He will move
for a new trial. Drought sold receivers’
certificates to an Atlanta firm. He says
they were good, but the purchasers could 1
never collect on them.
RAPIST TO HANG.
Houston, Tex., Feb. 10.—Alexander Ter
rell, the negro who outraged Mrs. Jack
son, a white lady, In the outskirts of this
city last Deceihber, pleaded guilty to the
charge this morning and was sentenced
to death. The officers who escorted Ter
rell to the court Ijouse and later to the
Jail were followed py a large crowd, but
beyond a few Jeers and curses, no demon
stration was made,
ORDERED STEL RAILS.
New York, Feb. 10.—The Illinois Central
Railroad .company, taking advantage if
thececent break In the price of steel rails,
has placed orders with different mills for
60,000 Ions of rhlls for delivery during
the year 1897. Of these orders, It ft un
derstood, 46,000 went to the Illinois Steel
company.
FEMALE SUFFRAGE.
Boston, M&fis.; Feb. 10.—The legislative
committee on constitutional amendments
today voted ta report an amendment to
the constitution htrUting out the word
•‘male,*’ thus giving to women the full
right of suffrage)
Reasons for Dissolution of Steel
Rail Pool.
A TEMPORARY OPPORTUNITY
To Sell an Enormons Lot of Rails Could Not
Be Ignored.
OVER A MILLION DOLLARS INVESTED
The Result of the Break Not Known—Illi
nois Steel Company Preparing for
a Big Coup — All Eyes
Upon That Plant.
New York, Feb. 10.—The Evening Post
of this evening prints the following:
An interesting account of the direct
cause w'hich precipitated the rupture in
the steel rail pool, announced at Pitts
burg yesterday, was given today by a
person familiar with the situation. Rep
resentatives of two of the largest mills
met in Chicago Monday to agree upon
rates governing business in a particular
section of the country, and decided upon
$20 as a basis price for certain transac
tions. Just at that time some large con
tracts came into the market, and one of
the concerns interested was offered prof
itable business at a lower figure. Rumors
of cutting in various directions were cur
rent at the time, so the tempting olfer
was taken, and an order aggregating
many thousand tons wras reported at a
price said to be in the neighborhood of
$17 a ton. This necessitated, of course,
the withdrawal of one concern from the
pool. Orders were taken in this city
yesterday at a basis price of $20 for rails
at the mill, and local agents of some of
the largest concerns are said to be anx
ious to do as much business as possible
while an open market prevails.
It is not possible at this time to tell Just
what effect prevailing prices will have
upon outstanding contracts. Within the
last few weeks contracts amounting to
more than $1,000,000 have .been made by
some of the railways at prices averaging
$23 or $27 a ton, and although some of
them are binding at those figures, it is
thought likely that many orders will be
delivered at a lower rate by mills anx
to hold the patronage of good customers.
Whatever settlement is reached, however,
losses are inevitable.
The present situation, it is thought, will
not dlsturbe immediately the market for
street car rails, and the large contracts
recently given by local companies arc
not likely to be affected.
THE DOMINANT THEME
In Philadelphia Was the Dissolution—Or
ders for Rails. Pouring In.
Philadelphia, Feb. lfl.^-Thg dissolution
of the steel rail pool was the dominant
theme of discussion in the iron and steel
trade today. Luther S. Bent, chairman
of the executive committee of the board
of directors of the Pennsylvania Steel
company, said this afternoon that the
first of the break in prices had been to
abnormally Increase business, and that
orders for nearly 200,000 tons of steel rails
at the $20 rate had been received by east
ern companies since Friday last, the con
tracts being divided between the Penn
sylvania Steel company, the Lackawan
na, Cambria and Bethlehem companies.
The contracts, Mr. Bent believed, would
not have been executed before June or
July if the cut had not taken place. Ask
ed whether he thought the cut would ex
tend beyond the $20 basis, Mr. Bent said:
"That Is a question that will largely de
pend upon the attitude assumed today by
the Illinois Steel company. If it fails to
adjust maters it will not surprise me if
rates further declined.”
NOW LOOK OUT.
New York, Feb. 10.—It was announced
today that the Illinois Steel company
had borrowed $1,500,000 from the United
States Trust company. The loan was.
made for six months with 36,000 shares of
stock in the Connellsvllle Coke com
pany. controlled by the Illinois Steel
company as collateral. It is the Inten
tion of the Illinois Steel company to pay
off the loan at the end of six months by
Issuing $3,500,000 debentures, of which
the balance may be used for purposes of
the company.
THE ANNUAL MEETING
—
Of Stockholders of the Illinois Steel Com
pany-President’s Report.
Chicago, Feb. 10—The annual meeting
of the stockholders of the Illinois Steel
company was held today in the general
offices in the Rookery. The financial
statement showed a deficit for the year
ending December 81, of $349,399. The con
vertible assets were $9,156,588; cash on
hand, $654,461.
President Gates, in. his annual report,
stated "The last year has been a very un
successful one in iron and steel manu
factures, as well a s business generally.
The opening of the year showed a condi
tion of demoralization at every industrial
center, largely caused by the Venezuelan
message. This, coming at a period of
general business revival, created wide
spread financial panic and almost help
less industrial confusion, the serious ef
fects of which were felt for months.”
After laying most of the trouble at the
door of the Chicago convention, President
Gates adds; “We had fully 300,000 tons of
products sold for prompt delivery at that
time, but the financial conditions which
prevailed throughout the country ren
dered it impossible for our customers to
accomplish payment for the goods con
tracted for, and as a consequence, our
concern being obliged to carry much ma
terial and locking up a large amount of
money, our accounts and bills payable
have been abnormally high.”
All the directors and officers were re
elected. A. M. Crane was appointed gen
eral sales agent, succeeding J. Lyate.
WASHINGTON GOSSIP.
THE BROOKLYN'S DAMAGE.
Washington, Feb. 10.—According to the
official report from Naval Constructor
Lumard, of his examination of the cruis
er Brooklyn, after her bottom was ex
posed in the League Island dry dock,
that vessel’s Injuries are more serious
than at first reported and it will' proba
bly take three weeks to remedy the dam
age at ail expense which may reach as
Jifgh as $50,000.
Divested of technical details, the report
41tows thoA tne Vx>rt«ontai keel jpiates
are badly bent up on both sides of her
vertical keel from frame No. 30 to 61 and
on licr side to No. 70. The keel Is proba
bly not materially Injured. Strake “A’’
starboard from No. 30 to 60 Is bent In
from one to four Inches. Strake “A"
port side is completely broken through
every frame from No. 30 to 70, the frames
being bent in from six to twelve Inches.
Strake “B” on port side Is slightly bent
for a short distance. Strake “A’’ is the
course of plates alongside the keel plates
and “B” is the next course above. As the
frames are four feet apart, It appears
that the hole, broken through on the port
side, is 160 feet long, extending from be
yond the forward boiler compartment
under the bow magazine to the floor of
the engine rooms. No action has yet
been taken by the department towards
fixing the responsibility for the accident
by a court of inquiry.
WATSON'S CASK HOPELESS.
Washington, Feb. 10.—The contest
brought by the late populist for the vice
presidency, Mr. Thomas E. Watson, for
the seat In the house now filled by Mr.
Black, from the Tenth Georgia district,
will, so far as elections committee No.
1 is concerned, be settled tomorrow. It
was really decided a fortnight ago in Mr.
Black's favor. At that time an informal
vote was taken, which showed that the
committee was practlcaly unanimous in
the belief that Mr. Watson had not made
a case sufficiently strong to Justify the
unseating of Mr. Black.
During the past few days Mr. Bartlett,
of Georgia, one of the members of the
committee, has been engaged in writing
the report, which will be submitted to the
committee tomorrow and which there.Is
reason to believe will receive the lncmrse
ment of all the members. If any objec
tion be made to the report it will rest
upon certain matters of detail not direct
ly affecting Mr. Black’s right to the seat.
In no event, it is asserted, will there be
a minority report favoring Mr. Watson.
It has been expected that Mr. Watson
would avail himself of the privilege usual
in such cases of arguing his cause on the
floor when it comes up in the house. If
there be no minority report, however, Mr.
Watson will have less excuse for appear
ing in person, and it is not believed in
that case that he will appear.
DAUNTLESS WANTS FREEDOM.
Washington, Feb. 10.—The collector of
customs at Jacksonville has Informed the
secretary of the treasury that an appli
cation has been filed in Judge Locke's
court for an injunction restraining the
collector and captain of the United States
revenue cutter Bout-well from interfering
with the- movements of the alleged filibus
ter Dauntless. The Boutwell is lying at
anchor near the Dauntless and is under
orders not to allow the filibuster to leave
port.
The hearing of the application was set
for tomorrow, but Attorney General Har
mon has notified Judge Locke that the
government could not be ready at so early
a date and asktd for a postponement,
which will likely be granted.
COTTON FROM ENGLAND.
Washington, Feb. 10.—Consul Grinnel),
at Manchester, England, has sent the
state department a statement of the
large amount of cotton yarn exported
from his consular district the past year
(1896) to the United States aggregating
nearly 1,300,000 pounds.
Much of this, which Includes a great
variety of “counts" is of the finer quali
ties used by manufacturers of fancy
small wares and electrical and other wire
covers and shows Just where the Ameri
can spinners are losing a market which
they might find very profitable. The
table shows 332.996 pounds of rovings, 131,
429 of two seventies, 120,617 pounds of two
sixties, 97,750 of two-hundreds and less
amounts of sixty specified varieties.
ON THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Feb. 10.—Foggy, rainy
weather today kept down the attendance
to the 2,000 regulars. The track was
slushy and three favorites won. Me
Caren’s Pat Dunne securing the $1,000 Le
compte handicap cleverly.
First Race—One mile. Ondague, 110
(C. RellT), 3 to 5, won; Pirate, second; Lit
tle Billy, third. Time, 1:51.
Second Race—Half mile. Ironical, 99
(A. Barrett), 12 to 1, won; Geogre T. Todd,
second; Floss, third. Time, :54.
Third Race—Seven furlongs. Rhett
Goode, 102 (Gannon), 5 to 1, won; Hills
bore, second; Bob Clampett, third. Time,
1:36%.
Fourth Face—Lecompte handicap, $1,
000, 3-year-olds, seven furlongs. Pat
Dunne, 116 (Beauchamp), 3 to 1, won;
Donna Rita, second; Sharon, third. Time,
1:35%.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs. Lady
Louise, 88 (T. Burns), 1 to 2, won; Lillian
E.. second; A1 Kyris, third. Time, 1:21%.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Whiff, 103
(Beauchamp), 7 to 1, won; Dejure, sec
ond; Tagllona, third. Time, 1:22%.
•FRISCO RESULTS.
Oakland, Cal.. Feb. 10.—Weather fine;
track fair. Three favirltes won.
First Race—Five furlongs, selling. Che
nille, 102 (H. Martin), 5 to 2, won: Ne
bula, second; Mercutlo, third. Time,
1:03.
Second Race—Seven and a half fur
long's. David, 109 (Thorpe), 6 to 5, won;
Formal, second; Arezzo, third. Time,
1:36%.
Third Race—Mile. Damien, 110 (Mar
tin). 7 to 10, won; Satsuma, second; Mc
Llght, third. Time, 1:41%.
Fourth Race—Lessak selling stake, six
furlongs, $1,250. Caspar, 105 (Thorpe),
7 to 10, won; Scarfpln, second; Good
Times, third. Time, 1:15.
Fifth Race—Mile. Perseus, 98 (R.
Isom), 20 to 1, won; Torsina, second^Ben
amela, third. Time, 1:43%.
Sixth Race—Mile and a sixteenth, over
four hurdles. Gold Dust, 140 (Wilkins),
7 to 1, won: Reddington, second; Imp.
Autonomy, third. Time, 1:58.
SURPASSED ALL RECORDS.
Washington, Feb. 10.—Torpedo boat
No. 6 surpassed all speed records in the
American navy today on her oftlcia! trial
near Newport. Commodore Dewey,
chairman of the trial board, telegraphed
the navy department as follows:
“Made very satisfactory speed trial.
Five runs over twelve mile course gave
an average approximate speed of 28%
knots.”
WOLCOTT’S MOVEMENTS.
London, Feb. 10.—The movements*, of
United States Senator F. O. Wolcott, who
Is visiting the continent In the interests
of bimetallism', are reported to be very
uncertain. All that Is known of his plans
Is that he will return to London on Feb.
20 and sail for New York on board the
steamer Aurana on Feb. 17.
DOLPHIN OFF ST. JOHN'S BAR.
Jacksonville, Fla., Feb. 10.—The Dol
phin Is off St. John’s bar, having taken
the place of the cruiser Newark to pre
vent the escape of filibusters. The New
ark has gone to Charleston.
NEWARK AT PORT ROYAL.
Washington-, Feb. 10.—The Newark haB
arrived at Port Royal and the Dolphin
has taken her place watching for filibus
ters off St. John's river bar.
MAY KEEP OPEN SUNDAYS.
London, Feb. Id.—in the house of com
mons today the bill providing for the
closing of public houses on Sunday was
rejected by a vote of 209 to 119.
SWELLEST OF THE SWELL
— i
Gotham’s Great Event Eclipsed
.** in Splendor.
1 -
THF=BRADLEY-MARTIN BALL
i —
Representing the Creme de la Creme of
J? America's Chief Metropolis.
w|f GORGEOUS BEYOND DESCRIPTION
Belles and Beaux, Old and IToung, Bee
decked in JewelB Worthy a King’s |
Ransom Mingled in the Stately
Minuet and Giddy Waltz.
New York, Feb. 10.—The Bradley-Mar*
tin fancy dress ball took place this even
ing in the spacious ball rocgn of the Wal
dorf hotel. The mise en sene was of be
wildering enchantment, a veritable fairy- .
land, resplendent with all that wealth"'
and taste could command, and graced by,
the presence of many hundred members
of the fashionable set, radiant In rich
robes of historic renown.
The richness of the decorations, the
ancient picturesque costumes, the beauti
ful allegorical toilettes, the comingling of
so many beauties, old and young, amazed!
and charmed all fortunate enough to have
been bidden to the ball. »
As a superb social function It has had
no parallel In America. Its fame may.
pass into history and perhaps Its splen
dors will be written down as the stand
ard for the belles and gallants of the com
lng century.
The scene presented was a strange
spectacle In this up-to-date metropolis.
At the first coupe d'oell, one would have
Imagined the graves had opened and the
kings and queens, the princesses and the
titled aristocracy of the decayed centur
ies had arisen In chorus to again become
themselves In all their old-time glory.
Perhaps there were 700 guests present,
all gorgeously garbed In silks, satins and
magnificently bedecked in diamonds.
Almost every character of note tn the
times of Louis XIV. and Louis XV., from
the pleblan peasant to the Jewel-crowned
king and queen, was personated. They
presented imposing figures, dancing In
the stately minuet or whirling in the
merry waltz. Numerous were the pseudo
Marie Antoinettes, Queen Elizabeths,
Lady Teazles, Gismondas, Juliettes, Joan
d'Arcs, Empresses Josephines, Mary,
Queen of Scots. Colonial Dames, Knights
of Malta, Cardinals, Romeos. Toreadors
and Cavaliers, all presented In costumes
of the costliest fabrics and with marvel
ous truth to detail.
The Marie Antoinette ladles predomi
nated. America's historical notables
seemed badly neglected, even the father
of his country, George Washington, be
ing honored only by two representatives.
Aside from the beauty of the costumes,
intertst centered in the unprecedented
display of jewels, many rare, old, price
less family heirlooms being worn. There
is no estimating their monetary worth,
but they certainly represent vast for
tunes. Many of the women seemed
ablaze with the sparkling gems.
The guests began arriving about 11
o’clock. They entered the hotel through
a private door on Thirty-third street and
were Immediately ushered to the second
floor, where a suite of fifteen large apart
ments had been reserved for dressing
purposes. Here were stationed numer
ous hair dressers, costumers, modistes,
and all functionaries required for tha_
final polishing touches of the exquisite"
outfits. These roms were decorated with
n profusion of roses and smilax.
After the guests had assembled and
made ready for the grand entree, they
descended the flower-strewn stairways to ,
the reception parlor on the main floor.
As they passed through the archway
thev were met by the hostess. Mrs. Iirad
ley Martin, who stood beneath a canopy
of rich tapestries and floral effects. Mrs. ,
Martin wore a becoming costume of the
Queen Elizabeth period, made of black
velvet over red brocade. Sh-1 was adorn-^
ed with all her magnificent jewels, includ
ing her famous rope of diamonds.
As the guests approached, their names
and the characters impersonated were
announced by lackeys. The walls of the
reception room were covered with costly
tapestries of the daintiest color, whilfe
myraids of roses, carelessly thrown, rest
ed In the folds, as they chanced to fall.'i
In one corner was placed the Hungarian l
band hidden behind a bower of long !
stemmed roses.
1 ne guests movea irom tins baiuu,
through the corridors, which hod been '
made to represent n woodland, lit up by
scores of concealed miniature Ineandes- )
cent lights, to the big ball room. The
decoration of this room was also a work ,
of art and the Illumination brilliant. At'
the end of the room was a balcony hand
somely adorned, In which was stationed-.
Victor Herbert’s orchestra for the dance
music. It was near midnight before the
quadrille D’Honneur, the opening number
of the ball, was danced. It had been
organized by Mrs. Astor. John Jacob
Astor was the king of tonight and Mrs. 1
Rradley-Martln’ the queen. They led
the quadrille and at one side were Mrs.
Stuyvesant Fish and Mr. Robert Van
Cortlandt; at the opposite end, Miss Ger
ry and J. Townsend Martin and Mrs.
Whitney Warren and Mr. Lispenard
Stewart. The opposite side couples, Mrs.
Orme Wilson and Harry Lehr; Mrs. Lee
Taller and Mr. Craig Wadsworth: Miss
Lena Morton and Mr. Center Hitchcock,
and Miss Madeline Cutting and Mr. J. J.
Van Altn.
Following this came the Mrs. Edmund
L. Bayllss quadrille, which was partici
pated in by Mrs. Ogden Mills, Mrs. John
Jacob Astor. Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt,
Jr.; Mrs. Henry Sloan. Miss Edith Mor
ton, Miss Van Renssalaer, Miss Alfonso
De Navaro, H. D. Robbins, Worthington
Whitehouse and others.
Then came the debutante quadrille, all
the dancers wearing costumes of the
Louis Qulnzo epoch. The quadrille was
danced to the slow music of the minuet
and the different figures were executed
with grace and precision. General danc
ing was then Indulged in. Supper was
served in the Empire dining rooms. The'
tables wire prettily decorated with roses.
The cotillion after supper was led by Mr.
Elisha Dyer, Jr., who wore a costume j
of the period of Francis I. It consisted
if a oloak of royal purple velvet, a coat
of the same material and richly decorated
with gold embroidery. The tights were
of violet silk, and he wore a hat with
large ostrich feathers.
The gray streaks of dawn were strug
gling through the windows of the Wal
dorf before the last echo of "Home, Sweet
Home” had died in the floral scented
room, and the greatest ball in Gotham’s
history was ended.
There were many guests from out of
town, small parties coming from Sant
Francisco, Chicago, New Orleans, washa
Ington, Boston, Philadelphia and Baltle
more. ... .. _t.i
- ’ ' ~ ~BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1897. NUMBER 22
VERY LOOSE LEGISLATION
Bill Introduced in the Senate
Already a Law.
MORGAN GROWS CAUSTIC
In Referring to Cleveland’s Holding Back
Information,
THE EFFECT OF BAD PUNCTUATION
A Semi-Colon Provokes Two Hours of Dis
cussion on a Bond Bill—Watson-Black
Contest Finally Disposed of
in Favor of Black.
Washington, Feb.ll.—A curious illus
tration of the extremely loose business
methods of congress was furnished in the
senate "today when Mr. Vest reported
back from the committee a house bill
which had been referred to that commit
tee. and stated that the same bill pre
cisely had passed both houses at the
present session, had been approved and
signed by the president, and was now
law.
The diplomatic and consular appropria
tion bill, carrying an aggregate of $1,695,
308 was passed after some caustic re
marks by Mr. Morgan, on an item of $10,
000 for a minister plenipotentiary to the
Btates <jf Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Sal
vador. Two of these states, he said, had,
according to newspaper reports, formed
with Honduras, a new government call
ed the Greater Republic of Central
America, sending a minister to Washing
ton who had been formally received by
the president, and closing their respective
foreign offices so that an American min
ister could hold no diplomatic relations
with them individually.
But of this change, the president of the
United States had not condescended to
give any information to congress or the
people. Mr. Morgan spoke of this state
of affairs as having brought about a
very awkward complication; but he said
that he had no proposition to make about
it Neither had Mr. Hale. (rep. of Maine),
who was in charge of the bill, and who
recognized the force of Mr. Morgan's ob
servations, but said that the committee
on appropriations had thought it better to
leave the usual item in the bill and let
the state department arrange the diffi
culty in the way that might seem best
to it.
An agreement was reached to have the*
vote on the conference report to the im
migration bill taken at 4 p. m. next
Wednesday.
At 1:30 o’clock the senate went into
executive session on the arbitration, and
continued to sit with closed doors until
4:45 p m., when it adjourned.
IN THE HOUSE.
A displaced semicolen in the bill pro
viding fo’r the refunding of the bonded
indebtedness of the several territories
was the innocent cause of a wholly un
expected debate on the monetary ques
tion in the house today, lasting two or
three hours. Two or three years ago con
gress authorized Arizona to sell some
"gold" bonds upon the request of M. A.
Smith, then the delegate from that ter
ritory, because the territory could get
better terms for such bonds than for
"lawful money” bonds. The bill under
dlscugslon authorized the refunding of
these particular bonds in gold bonds, but
the presence of a semicolen in the text
suggested to the mind of Mr. McMillin
(dem.. Tenn.) the possibility that the bill
could be so construed as to warrant the
issue of gold bonds for all the bonds is
sued by Arizona. From Mr. Payne's
(rep., N. Y.) declaration that he could see
r.o harm that would result if all the bonds
were made payable in gold, a lively dis
cussion sprung up, in which many mem
bers took part, and took a wide range.
The most important statements in the
course of the debate were those of Mr.
Knox (rep., Mass.), in charge of the bill,
that the country was upon a gold basis,
that it would doubtless continue on that
basis, that it'would not initiate an inter
national bimetallic conference and that
there was sufficient statesmanship in the
republican party to provide for the larg
est possible use of silver, and that it
would not be through the unlimited coin
age of that metal.
At Mr. Knox's suggestion the semicolen
was replaced by a comma; on Mr. McMil
in’s suggestion the bonds, other than the
Arizona gold bonds named, were made
payable in the “lawful money of the
United States” and the bill was then
passed.
The sundry civil appropriation bill for
the year ending June 30, 1898, was re
ported by Mr. Cameron, (rep., 111.) and
placed on the calendar.
Mr. Bartlett (dem., Ga.) presented the
unanimous report of elections committee
No. 1 upon the contest of Thomas E. Wat
son vs. Mr. J. C. C. Black, from the Tenth
district of Georgia, in favor of Black,
and stated he would call it up at the
first opportunity.
The bill making appropriations (a to
tal of $9,253,325) for fortifications for the
year ending June 30, 1898, was considered
and passed.
The postofflee appropriation bill was
taken up In committee of the whole and
discussed for an hour without action.
The house then, at 5:10 p. m., adjourned.
A BUILDING FOR DALTON, GA.
Washington, Ffeb. 11.—Mr. Maddox,
democrat, of Georgia, introduced in the
house today a bill appropriating *50,000
for a public building at Dalton, Ga.
ELECTIONS COMMITTEE NO. 1
Reports in the Watson-Black Contest—
Watson Knocked Out.
Washington, Feb. 11.—The committee
on elections, No. 1, of the house, this
morning, filed a unanimous report in the
case of Watson vs. Black, from the Tenth
Georgia district, in favor of the con
testee. It has been an open secret that
some days ago the committee voted
unanimously in favor of the contestee,
but the formal written report, prepared
by Judge Bartlett, of Georgia, was not
presented to the committee until this
morning, when it was unanimously
adopted. On every material allegation
in the notice of contest the committee
has found against the contestant.
The report states that the charges of
conspiracy to defeat the contestant by
the registration officials in a number of
counties outside of Richmond, by striking
from the registration lists voters who fa
vored the contestant, thus reducing his
majority in these counties, were wholly
unfounded and that the registration offi
cials in those places faithfully performed
their duties. In every county except
Wilkinson, the populist registrars agreed
to the reports, made and approved the
list and this county Watson carried. Con
vincing proof was furnished to show that
in Wilkinson county more democrats
than populists were stricken from the
lists. The report also finds that, the con
duct of the, election officers all through
the district was not only honest, but
above suspicion, and that the charges
of fraud Were not sustained. The only
prectnct outside of Richmond county
which was attacked for fraud on the day
of election was Sparta, where It was
charged that 300 Watson voters were
counted for Black. A careful Investiga
tion of the facts shewed that there was
no evidence to sustain this allegation.
The report next shows that the con
test hinged wholly on Richmond county,
where it was charged that the registra
tion fists wen*- padded with fictitious
names and that the registrars refused to
strike from the list such illegal voters.
It was also alleged that voters had been
bribed in Black's Interest, thus depriv
ing Waieon of ^.000 votes and that 2,000
votes cast for him were counted for
Black. The committee find these charges
unfounded lr that the registrars or officers
of election in Richmond county in any
way violated the law. In other words
there was no bribery or Intimidation on
the part of the contestee's friends. It Is
possible that a few illegal votes may
have been cast as the result of repeating,
but even this is doubted.
The committee finds about twenty-four
negroes received 10 cents apiece from one
of the friends of contestee for car far
after they had voted, which money was
claimed to have been paid to bribe these
persons. The number of these persons
is so small, however, that in the opinion
of the committee they could in no way
affect the result.
The report closes with the declaration
that the election was as fair as elections
ordinarily are, and that there is nothing
in the evidence that would authorise the
committee to throw out the votes of Rich
mond county.
AN ICE GORGE
Forming at Evansville—First of the
Season—River Falling.
Cincinnati. Feb. 11.—The Ohio is now
falling from Pittsburg to Portsmouth.
The tributaries are also falling. At Cin
cinnati it was at a standstill at midnight,
registering 44 feet 7 inches, within five
inches of the danger line. There is an
ice gorge at Evansville extending from
two miles below the city to seven miles
above it. The water gauge stood! at
thirty-four feet last night, and is rising
two Inches an hour.
This is the first ice gorge at Evans
ville In its history. The tow boat Pen
guin., lying at the mouth of Pigeon
creek, was caught by the ice and earriedi
against the Louisville and Nashville
bridge. The boat was badly damaged
and the crew narrowly escaped drowning.
The Cincinnati and Memphis line steam
er State of Kansas, bound for Cincinnati,
is at the foot of Henderson island, ten
miles below Evansville, and is reported
in a safe position.
AN ACCIDENTAL BLAZE
Causes the Destruction of $15,000 Worth
of Abbeville, Ga., Property.
Atlanta, Ga„ Feb. 11.—A special from
Abbeville, Ga., to the Constitution, says
that fire destroyed $15,000 worth of prop
erty there early this morning. Among
the losses were:
The office of the Cypress Lumber com
pany and stock of goods, the office and
outfit of the Abbeville Chronicle, the of
fice, furniture and commissary stock of
the Mahr Weil Lumber company, the
Central hotel, G. W. Princeler tenant;
the drug store of G. H. Macon, Bush's
barber shop, the postofllce, the building
of P. S. Oliver, general merchandise; the
store of C. E. Melton, and the store of
Paul Haire.
The estimated loss by the fire is between
$15,000 a nd $20,000. The Insurance covers
about one-third of the loss.
The origin of the fire is supposed to
have been accidental.
IT IS COLONEL CIRUJEDA.
The Major Paid For the Blood of Maceo—
Paper Money Issue Increased.
Havana, Feb. 11.— The Marquis de
Palmerola, secretary of the government
and Intendent Fagoaga, have left Place
tas for Santa Clara, where they will meet
Captain, General Weyler. The former
Major Cirujeda, who was in command of
the troops in the engagement in which
Antonio Maceo was killed, has been pro
moted to a oolonel. Colonel Cirujeda re
ported today that he had captured the
camp of the rebel commandant Villaneu
eve, on the north coast of the province
of Havana.
Dr. Gaspar Betancourt, Ynoncencia,
Aranjo and Pantaleona Castillo have
been expelled from Cuba by order of the
government. Dr. Betancourt, who is an
American citizen, was acquitted a few
days ago of the charge of aiding the
rebels. The issue of paper money has
been increased to $30,000,000.
WILSON CALLED TO THE CHAIR.
Lexington. Va„ Feb. 11.—The hoard of
trustees of the Washington and Lee uni
versity at a called meeting held here
today unanimously elected Postmaster
General William L. Wilson president of
that Institution. He will formally as
sume the duties of the position at the
opening of the next session in September.
He had been selected at a previous meet
ing, and the piesent meeting was to ratify
his acceptance. His selection is hailed
with delight here.
DUTfY FOR EGYPTIAN COTTON.
Savannah, Ga., Feb. 11.—The planters
of sea island cotton in Pierce county,
Georgia, held a convention at Blackshear,
Ga., today. It was resolved to memorial
ize congress to put a tariff duty on sea
island cotton imported from Egypt. Sys
tematic steps are also to he taken to or
ganize the planters in every county in
Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, to
unite in the memorial to congress and to
reduce the acreage planted In the staple
this year in the states named
SAD FATE OF A MUTE.
St. Augustine, Fla., Feb. 11.—Yesterday
Agnes Demere, a deaf mute, was left at
the State Deaf and Blind institute here
by her father, who resides at Punta
Gorda, Fla. The child was not contented
and during the afternoon escaped from
the institution. Search was made with
out avail until this morning, when the
body of the little girl was found float
ing in a creek near the institute. It is
supposed that she was drowned in trying
to wade across the creek. ^
STOCKHOLDERS TO DECIDE.
Atlanta, Feb. 11.—A meeting of the
stockholders of the State Savings bank
will be held in Atlanta Saturday, Febru
ary 13. The meeting is called for the pur
pose of deciding whether to attempt to
continue business or to wind up the
company’s affairs and distribute what
remains after paying its debts.
WORST OF THE YEAR.
Great Bend, Kan., Feb. 11.—Western
and central Kansas Is experiencing the
worst snow storm of the year. The air
is filled with flying snow, and it is Impos
sible to distinguish anything 100 yards .
distant. |
VICTORY IS SURE
Constitutional Convention
Passes the House.
THE VOTE WAS 49 TO 44
Populists, Republicans and Sixteen
Democrats Voted Nay.
BUT FEW CHANGES IN THE BILL
As Originally Presented—Sent to the Senate With
out Engrossment—Will Pass There Without
Trouble—Leaders In the Vic
torious Fight.
Montgomery, 'Ala., Feb. 11.—It Is almost
universally conceded that the house of
representatives did its best day s work
today. By a vote of 49 to 44 it passed
the bill which provided for the holding cf
an election next August to determine
whether the people of Alabama would
call a convention to reform the organic
law of the state.
Up to last Monday the passage of the
bill through the house was a remote pos
sibility. The chance for its passage was
esteemed to be about one in a hundred.
However, some generals, who never sur
render, got behind the project and the
vote in the house today tells how well
they have succeeded.
The bill was called up very soon alter
roll call this morning by its author, Mr.
Jenkins, of Wilcox, and after one or two
little colloquys over its consideration,
Mr. Davis, of Marion, moved to lay the
bill upon the table. The vote on this re
sulted ayes, 37; noes, 55. The considera
tion was then proceeded with.
Amendments to the bill were introduced
and adopted as follows; One changing
the date for assembling the convention
from the first Monday in September to
the first Monday in October, and one pro- '
vldlng for the election of eleven dele- i
gates from the state at large in addi- j
tion to the 100 delegates from the several
counties. A discussion of the bill then
followed.
W'ANTS A NEW CONSTITUTION.
Mr. Merrill, of Barbour, reminded the
house that the passage of the bill did
not determine that a convention should
be held, but simply provided that the peo
ple of Alabama should be given an op
portunity to say by their votes whether
the convention should be held. He be
lieved. he said, that our constitution was
out of date and should be remodeled.
However, he was willing to leave it all
to the people and he thought it was sim
ple justice to submit it to them.
LLOYD OPPOSES IT.
Mr. Lloyd acknowledged that the con
stitutional convention was a very live Is
sue in the state, and'should be given full
consideration. He believed that to force
an election, to be held next fall would be
extremely dangerous to the business In
terests and the equal welfare of the
state. He had not found, he said, any
defect or shortcoming In the present con
stitution serious enough to demand a
constitutional convention. He Insisted ,
that it would be a great cost to the state,1
that Kentucky had spent $11,000 in call
ing her constitutional convention and the
convention had cost the state $160,000. It
had remained in session, however, for
seven months. He estimated that the
proposed convention and the election
preceding It would cost Alabama some
$75,000. ’He said he'had lived for forty
years under the present constitution, and
had not found that it limited his energies,
abilities, prosperity or happiness. He ac
knowledged that there were defects in the
constitution of 1876, but he would rather
cleave to them thjm fly to ills he knew
not of. He feareA as a democrat! the
proposed changes in the organic law.
The government of the state was now se
rene, he thought, in the hands of the
Caucasians. He believed a constitution
al convention might imperil this situa
tion. He thought he saw a disposition
to enlarge tihe taxing power and earnest
ly depreciated s/uchta^sentlment.
Mr. Lloyd mid^afhost eloquent speech
and was applauded as he took his seat.
attic's ASk® ADVOCACY.
Mr. Kyle, of Morgan, one of the strong
est speakers on the floor, replied to Mr.
Lloyd’s argument. He agreed with Mr.
Lloyd that the wealth of Alabama did
not consist of the product of its fields
and mines and forest so much as In Its
manhood and womanhood, and to this
manhood and womanhod was he willing
to auJjfjrlt this matter of the constitution
al convention. He Insisted that the peo
ple demanded a convention, that prac
tically the whole press of the state ad
I vacated the' proposition, that the cofh
—1—▼— -
'ftp 1 m- a If h
mercial bodies, without exception, clam
ored for It. He Insisted that the state
badly needed a new organic law, that the
judiciary system must be reformed, that
there were entirely too many courts and
too many elections were forced to be
held In Alabama. With reference to the
matter of probable increased taxation
he reminded the house that under the
present constitution special taxes may
be levied for the building of bridges, but
the right of a community to tax Itself
for the benefit of its public schools or for
the building of good roadways was de
nied.
Answering the charge that the pur
pose of the convention was to disfran
chise many of the citizens of Alabama,
Mr. Kyle said the contrary was done—
that under the present constitution a per
fectly fair vote cannot be secured, be
cause no distinguishing ensign or mark
can be placed upon the ballot. He urg
ed the house to pass the bill in the in
terests of all the people of the state.
COD. ALTMAN ADVOCATES IT.
Col. Altman reminded the house that
the sole question was: Will the house
pass a bill submitting to the people the
question of their ordering a constitutional
convention? He thought the house, In
this matter, should soar above partisan
, politics. He insisted that the bill pro
vided for a maximum cost to the people
of $50,000, and the question was, should
the people be allowed to choose whether
i they would spend this much of their own
money on a constitutional convention.
Col. Altman said that, speaking for him
self, he was opposed to an educational
qualification, for the voter. The ballot,
he thought, was the only protection some
men had left and that no man, black or
white, should be deprived of It. He be
lieved a new constitution would give Ala
bama a permanent, enduring system of
election laws, which would do justice to
all men. He believed that the constitu
tion should permit localities to tax them
selves for educational purposes.
The dinner hour arrived while Col. Alt
man was still on the floor, which entitled
him to the recognition of the speaker
upon the reassembling this afternoon.
At the afternoon session Col. Altman
resumed his argument. He claimed that
fifty days was too short a time for the
general assembly to complete its work.
He said he was not disposed to allow the
legislature to cost the state any more
I -money than it does now, but the constitu
tion should permit the assembly to sit
exceeding fifty day's, provided the excess
time should not be charged for. He re
minded the house, however, that If a new
constitution should be adopted the set
tlement of the multitudinous local mat
ters that now burden the calendars would
be disposed of by other tribunals, and
fifty days every four years would be
ample time to dispose of all that would
legltmately come before the assembly.
Col. Altman dwelt at length on the bur
dens which the present constitution
places on the educational Interests of the
state. ,
Dr. Huddleston said he thought the peo
ple should be allowed to pass Judgment
In the matter, and he therefore favored
the bill.
Mr. Gast, republican, addressed the
house in opposition to the bill, devoting
most of his remarks to the disfranchise
ment proposed.
MR. HEARN'S HARANGUE.
Mr. Hearn, populist, Insisted that the
principle of holding a constitutional con
vention was wrong. He said a clean
thfng could not come out of a dirty one,
that the democratic party was fathering
the convention and he could not con
ceive how It could be a respectable con
cern. As was the gentleman's custom
he.shouted and ranted until everybody's
head ached. He Incidentally coquetted
with the negroes on the question of dis
franchisement.
The previous question was then de
manded, and Mr. Jenkins, as was his
privilege, closed the debate for the pass
age of his pet measure In a brief, but
I
effective speech. The vote was than
taken, and resulted as stated.
Ayes—Messrs. Altman, Barron, Bould
ln. Brown, of Colbert; Brown, of Jeffer
son; Browne, of Talladega? Burns, Cam
eron, Coleman, Dale, Detchamps, Drey
spring. Flewellyn, Gaston, Glover,Graves,
Greene, Harris, Hampton, Hibbard, Hill,
Huddleston, Hunt, Jenkins, Joseph, Kil
len, Knowles, Kyle, Lavender, Lipscomb,
Love, Merrill, Mitchell, McClelland, Mc
Guire, NeSmith, Ovens, Perry, Prowell,
Robinson, Rogers, Sheldon, Stewart,
Ti'oup, Tunstall, Waller, of Hale; Waller,
of Montgomery; Wiley, Wood, of Macon.
Total, 49.
Nay—(Messrs. Speaker, Abercrombie,
Appling, BarneB, Beasley, Beeson, Bran
don, Campbell, Cofer, Canant, Darby,
Davis EUand, Espy, Franklin, Gast,
Hearn. Henley, Heflin, Henson, Kenna
mer, Killebrew, Lawson, Lewis Lloyd,
Long. Longshore, Meadows, Mills, Mc
Cullum, Newman, Palmer, Poole, Porter,
Reynolds, Shamblln, Simmons, Timber
lake, Townsend. Turner, Wood, of Henry;
Yarbrough. Total, 44.
It will be observed that the populists,
republicans and sixteen democrats voted
against the bill. Four gentlemen paired
on the measure and were absent, and
three friends of the bill were unable to
be present.
The democrats voting against the bill
were: Speaker Clements, Messrs. Appling,
Barnes Brandon, Brothers, Cofer, Davis,
Heflin, Lloyd, Long, McCulIom, Mills,
Poole, Newman, Timberlake and Turner.
The bill went to the senate without en
grossment, and it is said tonight that its
passage there is already assured. It ap
pears now that the pro-convention senti
ment has been strong in the assembly all
the time, and that all that it needed was
organization. When Gov. Johnston, Gen.
Shelley, S. D. Weakley, J. A. Rountree,
John W. Tomlinson, Wilson Brown, F. V.
Evans John B. Knox and a few others of
that ilk put their energies to work a
thorough organization was soon effected
with the satisfactory result stated. The
public here appears to be satisfied with
the action of the house.
Mr. Merrill this morning called up the
bill which sought to amend the act passed
by the last general assembly providing
for the funding of the state debt. The
act authorized the governor to fund the
bonded debt of the state, but provided
that the new bonds should run for only
thirty years. It was found that thirty
year bonds could not be placed to such
good advantage as fifty-year bonds, and
the bill called up this morning simply
amended the act of 1895 to remedy this
condition. The bill passed without oppo
sition.
The university appropriation bill was
called up in the house this afternoon,
dnd Speaker Clements offered a substi
tute for It which he said had been agreed
upon by the friends and opponents of the
measure. It Bought to appropriate $10,
000 additional to the institution next year
and $20,000 additioanl for the next suc
ceeding year. The bill passed by a hand
some majority.
The senate spent most of the day on a
similar substitute, the university bill In
troduced into that body, and finally, to
night, succeeded In passing It with an
amendment, which cut the second year’s
additional appropriation to $10,000. The
friends of the measure will probably
pass the senate substitute as amended
rather than risk the chances of the larger
appropriation in the senate again.
The omnibus prohibition bill, which
comprises all of the local prohibition bills
agreed upon, was pass d by the house
this afternoon. as also was the eleomar
garlne bill, which seeks to amend and
perfect the anil-oleomargarine law
passed by the last legislature.
The house judiciary committee today
reported a resolution calling on the sen
ate to strike from the general revenue
bill the provisions which seek to Impose
a license tax of $t on each bicycle and $5
on each pistol owner in the state.
Messrs. Lavendar, Browne and Stansel
presented a minority report protesting
against any such action and conveying to
the senate an opinion from the secretary
of state that the tax sought to be Im
posed was unconstitutional. The house
by a large vote tabled the resolution,
thereby Indorsing the position of the mi
nority of the committee. A number of
local bills were passed by both houses
tonight.
RANDOLPH TUCKER DYING.
Lexington, Va., Feb. 11.—Hon. John R.
Tucker's condition is very critical and
his end Is dally looked for. Pleurisy, fol
lowed by intestinal pneumonia and heart
trouble are the diagnosis. Notwith
standing, he retains his faculties and is
exceedingly cheerful.
INDORSED THE ORDINANCE.
Atlanta, Feb. II.—The Alabama division
of the Order of Railway Conductors has
indorsed by resolution the Culberson or
dinance which is pending before the city
council. This ordinance prevents the use
of materials by convicts In Ailing con
tracts with the city.
THE DUTY OF GREECE.
Must Prevent Turkish Reinforcements
from Landing at Any Cost.
London, Feb. 11.—The correspondent at
Athens of the Daily News telegraphs
that the Grecian circular to the pow’ere
declares that It Is incumbent upon Greece
to prevent at all cost the landing of
Turkish reinforcements on tho Island of
Crete.
The Times, commenting on the Cretan
embrogllo. will say tomorrow that Greece
must not be permitted to force the hands
of the powers, and that there should be
Immediate Intervention to restore order.
RUSSIA OPPOSES GREECE.
St. Petersburg. Feb, 11.—It Is said that
seml-oAlcial circles here are strongly op
posed to Turkey being ousted from Crete.
CHfilSTilTHEilDS IT
Was the Answer of Greece to the
Powers,
RACE 4ND RELIGIOUS TIES
i —
Compel ^ to Intervene in Behalf of the Out
raged Cretans.
P -
DE0 ON THE MOTHER COUNTRY
^Been Made and She Could Not Be
/,n
^onqin Indifferent—Ambassadors Con
sult—John Bull Takes Excep
tion to Greece’s Action.
Athens, Feb. 11.—Advices received here
from Crete say that a fight occurred at
Kastelli, in the province of Kissamo, yes
terday in which thirty Christians and
100 Moslems were killed. Crowds con
tinue to surround the palace cheering
the king in commendation of his majes
ty's action in sending warshirw to Crete.
The royal yacht Spakteria accompanies
the Greek torpedo Flotilla to Crete.
In the chamber of deputies last eve
ning Premier Delyannis said that either
the porte would be prevented by the
powers from sending reinforcements to
Crete or would persist in sending them
there. In either case, the premier added,
the Greek government had decided to
take action promptly and decisively.
When Crete demanded a union with the
mother country, he said, Greece could
not remain indifferent.
At the conclusion of the remarks of M.
Delyannis, the leader of the oppTsitlon
assured the premier that the government
would have the heartiest support of the
opposition which assurance evoked pro
longed cheers.
The Cretan committee here are making
preperations on a large scale to land mem
and munitions of war upon the shores of
Crete, and the first installment of 600
men embarked and sailed last evening.
-o
GREECE SENDS HER ANSWER.
Christianity Demands It and She Will
Intervene at All Hazards.
Constantinople, Feb. 11—The porte has
communicated by telegraph with the
powers asking their support in the ef
forts of Turkey to restore order in Crete,
and the ambassadors are conferring upon
the question of exerting concerted pres
sure upon Greece to oompel the recall of
the Greek fleet from Cretan waters.
The Athens government has formulat
ed notification to the powers setting forth
that Greece cannot remain a mere specta
tor of the events which are taking place
in. Crete, and that the ties of race and
religion compel her to Intervene in be
half of the oppressed and f g el Vhris
tians In that island.
JOHN BULL AROUSED.
Raises Objection to the Summary Action
of Greece.
London, Feb. 11.—The Pall Mall Ga
zette, commenting upon the Cretan situa
tion says there is abundant foundation!
for the belief that the sending of the
Greek flotilla to Crete Is looked upon by
the British government as a matter so
serious as to threaten consequences of
the greatest importance. In view of the
fact that the action of Greece was entire
ly independent and taken without con
veying the slightest notion of her inten
tions to the powers, the Gazette says,
Lord Salisbury may be relied upon to
take prominent and decisive measures to
neutralize its effect.
THE TURKISH MINISTER
Protests Against the Action of Greece,
But Without Avail.
Athens, Feb. 11.—Assin Bey, the Turk
ish minister, today visited the foreign
office, and, acting under instructions
from his government, made a protest
against the dispatch of the Greek tor
pedo flotilla to Crete. Asslm Bey was
treated with the utmost courtesy and was
informed, so far as diplomacy allowed,
of the attitude of Greece on the Cretan
question. His protest, however, was so
far as known productive of no result.
The Greek government will not recall
the flotilla, and furthermore a second flo
tiUa will shortly start for Crete.
The troubles in the island have caused
many of the residents to flock to Greece
for safety. Since the outbreak began
fully 8,000 Cretans have arrived at the
Piraeus. As in the case of previous ex
odus from Crete, many of the refugees
are unable to care for themselves, and
the government will be compelled to ex
tend aid to them.
THIRTEEN VILLAGES ABLAZE.
Christians Turn the Tables on Moslems
and Kill Many of Them.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 11.—It is stated on
good authority that the governor of Crete,
George Pasha Berovitch, is desirous of
resigning his office, but that the porte
has expressed the wish that he should
remain here.
The entire Moslem population about the
city of Heraklion have entered that place
where they attacked the Christians and
pillaged their shops. The prefect of
Sitia reports that 300 Moslems have been
killed In that district by Christians.
It Is reported that the Moslems at Ret
imo have blown up with dynamite a'num
ber of Ituts owned or occupied by Chris
tians.
II Is reported _ that the Christians are
massacreing Moslems in the villages
around Sitia and that thirteen of the vil
lages arc burning.
The Moslems continue to prevent the
departure from the island, not only of
native Christians, but also of foreigners.
It Is probable that the foreign warships
here will Intervene and demand that
those who wish to leave the island shall
be allowed to do so without hindrance.
Confirmation has been received of the
reports of atrocities committed on wo
men and children In Klsamo and Kas
tell.
FEELING IN PARIS.
Paris, Feb. 11.—A very panicky feeling
prevailed at the bourse, at the opening
thlB morning, but later there was an Im
provement on the report that the powers
Intended to prevent Greece from inter
vening In the Cretan trouble.
DEPRESSION AT BERLIN.
Berlin, Feb. 11.—There was a depressed
tone at the opening of the bourse here
today, but afterward there was a calmer
feeling.BIRMINGH AM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1897. ' NUMBER 23
SEEMS VERY MUCH ALIVE
Morgan Adopts New Tactics for
His Pet Project.
CLAYON-BULWER TREATY
To Be Used as a Lever in Bringing Up the
Nicaragua Canal Bill.
ANOTHER DEAD DUCK REVIVED
Cadets and Middies May Attend the Inaug
uration—Stormy Time in the House
Over the Postoffloe Appro
priations Bill.
Washington, Feb. 12.—The fight for the
Nicaragua canal project was not defi
nitely closed for the session two days
ago when Mr. Morgan (dem. Ala.) with
drew the bill from present consideration.
A new phase of it was opened today by
the Introduction of a Joint resolution, de
claring the Clayton-Bulwer treaty of
April 19, 1850, abrogated. The Joint reso
lution went over until tomorrow, Mr.
Morgan announcing his purpose of then
addressing the senate upon it.
Neither ha3 the announced defeat, of the
plan to have the West Point cadets at
the inauguration parade been regarded
as final, by the rejection of the item for
that purpose in the Military academy ap
propriation bill, two or three weeks ago—
a bill for the participation of the ca
dets of the Naval and Military acade
mies having been introduced by Mr. Frye
(rep. Me.). The special expenses of the
senate for the inauguration ceremonies
were provided for by the passage of a
joint resolution appropriating $5,000 for
the purpose
The resolution hertofore offered by Mr.
Pettigrew (sllverite, S. D)*in favor of an
inquiry by the committee on public lands
Into the issue of a patent for the Perrine
grant of land in Florida, was taken up,
and was, under an imperative rule of the
senate, referred to the committee on con
tingent expenses.
The question of the right of congress
to recall from the president a bill sent
to him for his approval (except to correct
an error in engrossment or enrollment)
came up again today, and was, under a
resolution offered by Mr. Hill, referred
to the judiciary committee for examina
tion and report. Mr. Hili also offered a
resolution, which was agreed to, direct
ing the secretary of state to use his good
offices with the Spanish government to
have Sylvester Scovel, the American
newspaper correspondent recently ar
rested in Cuba, removed to Havana, in
order that he may be under the more
immediate care and protection of the
United States consul-general.
The Indian appropriation bill was re
ported and placed on the calendar.
Senate bill, referring to the court of
claims the claim of Stewart & Co., for
cotton seized by the government between
1861 and 1862, was passed.
The open session of the senate lasted
for only an hour. Then the galleries were
cleared, the doors were closed and the
consideration of the arbitration treaty
was resumed in executive session.
At 5 p. m. the senate adjourned until
tomorrow.
Folol wing is the text of the resolution
introduced by Senator Frye in the senate
and by Reprsentative Baker, of New
Hampshire, in the house:
Resolved, by the senate of the United
States, the house of representatives con
curlrng, That in view of the fact that
the people are interested in the United
States military and naval academies, and
in the future offices of the American
army and navy that the president, as
commander-ln-ehief, be and hereby is
requested to direct that the command
ants of the military and naval acade
mies be ordered to report March 4, with
cadets and hands to the chief marshal
of the inaugural' parade for participation
therein, and that for the purpose of
transportation and subsistence such sum
of money Is appropriated to be immedi
ately available, as may be necessary
from any moneys in the treasury not oth
erwise appropriated.
IN THE HOUSE.
The house, after the opening exerclseB,
went promptly Into committee of the
whole on the pogtofflce appropriation
bill, General debate was admitted to
one hour.
Mr. Brownwell, (rep. of Ohio,) opposed
the item for $196,000 for special facilities
between Boston and New Orleans.
This so-called fast mail, he said, was
in reality slower than the ordinary train
going south. The service was not for
the benefit of the business men, the real
beneficiaries being the New York dally
paper's. The government had already
done enough for the New York dallies,
and was now. losing thousands of dol
lars annually’ in carrying them. He
could not see why this subsidy should
tie given them. It was not extended to
papers in the western and other sec
tions of the country. A fund placed at
the disposition of the postmaster gen
eral to be used for special facilities where
It would do the most good was prefera
ble to subsidies of this kind.
Mr. Swanson, (dem. of Virginia), said
the gentlemen opposing the fast mail
item were not consistent. They upheld
large appropriations for facilitating de
livery of mail in cities by bicycles,
pneumatic tubes, etc., yet were against
giving a small sum for the benefit of the
people of fifteen states.
An amendment offered by Mr. Boud, at
the request of the postoffice department,
was agreed to, reducing the amount for
extension of the free delivery system
from $140,000 to $90,000, that being suffi
cient to meet the needs of the depart
ment.
Mr. Burton (rep. O.) made a point of
order against the paragraph providing
that the marine free delivery service at
Detroit shall hereafter be performed by
row boats instead of a steam launch
Mr. Settle (rep. N. C.) said a steam
yacht was now maintained at Detroit at
a cost of about $17 per day to puil a row
boat about 1,500 feet. The principal use
of the yacht was as a pleasure boat by
the postoffice officials.
Finsdly a compromise wa$ reached by
the adoption of an amendment offered
by Mr. Southard (rep. O.), giving the
postmaster-general discretion to use eith
er boat or steamer service in delivering
the malls at Detroit.
Mr. Talbert (dem. S. C.) offered an
amendment, Increasing from $50,000 to
$100,000 the item for experimental rural
free delivery. Agreed to.
On motion of Mr Simpkins (ftp. Mass.)
the special mail facilities paragraph was
amended by striking out the amount to
be expended therefor between Boston and
New York- $25,406. The facilities between
Boston and New York, he asserted, were
•
ample and the appropriation was un
necessary.
On a point of order made by Mr. Brom
well, republican, the paragraph was
stiicken out which authorizes the post
master-general to expend for other fast
mail facilities an unexpended balance of
the current appropriation for special mail
facilities on the trunk lines. The fast
mail facilities paragraph w^is then adopt
ed without a division or further amend
ment.
The bill was then reported to the house
and ail the amendments adopted in com
mittee were agreed to except that in
creasing from $50,000 to $100,000 the al
lowance for experimental rural free de
livery, which was defeated—29 to 102.
The bill was then passed and the house
again went into committee of the whole,
taking Up the sundry civil appropriation
bill. But before the reading of the bill
was completed the committee rose, and
the house, at 4:45 p. m., adjourned until
tomorrow, doing aw'ay with the usual
Friday night pension session.
BY THE LAUDANUM ROUTE.
Baltimore, Md., Feb. 12.—Edwin Adler,
a widely-known musician and composer
of this city, committed suicide last night
by swallowing a quantity of laudanum.
Mr. Adler registered at the Hotel Staf
ford last evening, and immediately re
tired to his room. At noon today the door
was forced, and his lifeless body was
found lying on the bed. Besides holding
lucrative positions as organist of the
First Presbyterian church and the Har
Sinai temple, Mr. Adler realized a hand
some income from his compositions and a
large class of pupils. No cause for the
deed is known. The dead man was about
35 years old.
BOLD DAYLIGHT ROBBERY.
Salisbury. Pa., Feb. 12.—A bold day
light bank robbery occurred here today.
About 1:45 o'clock In the afternoon a col
ored man entered the First National
bank and covering Teller Kllngensmith
with a revolver, demanded the money ly
ing on the counter. The teller handed
over J50O and the man ran out of the
bank and through the town. He was
followed by a posse and captured near
the county line. A few shots were fired
before the man surrendered and gave
up the money. He was taken to Indiana
county Jail. Th negro is unknown, but
is thought to be from Pittsburg.
VESUVIUS ARRIVES
But Falls io Attempt a Run of the Block
ade-Sea Very Rough—
Others Expected.
_
Charleston, S. C.. Feb. 12.—The battle
ship Indiana and dynamite cruiser Vesu
vius arrived off Charleston hardest night.
Contrary to all expectations, the cruiser
made no effort at all to come in the har
bor or run the blockade. She came te
anchor near the other ships of the squad
ron, and Is still lying there. The Indiana
had an uneventful trip down the coast.
The Newark and (Massachusetts are
hourly expected to join the fleet. It Is
now believed that the actual attempt to
run the blockade will be postponed until
all of the fleet are here, though no official
Information whatever on this subject Is
obtainable. It was so rough and foggy
outside last night that little work could
be done bv the ships, and so strong a sea
Is running off the bar that gun practice
of the fleet is being materially interfered
with.
This afternoon the cruiser Marble
head came up to the city and anchored
off the battery. She has received orders
to proceed to Jacksonville Monday, and
It Is understood that she will go from
there to Mobile soon. Little or nothing
was done by the warships today. The
Vesuvius was anchored near the rest of
the vessels and gave no intimation of an
attempt to run the blockade. The dyna
mite cruiser, In fact, was apparently hav
ing an uncomfortable time in the heavy
sea that was running. She was rolling
and plunging about in a manner that
rendered footing on her deck insecure to
landsmen. The Amphltrlte was coaled
during the day, but she will not rejoin
the fleet until tomorrow.
MARAUDIN GBANDS
Being Formed by Albanians to Invade
Thessaly—One Band Repulsed.
London, Feb. 12.—The Athens corres
pondent of the Dally News telegraphs
that Turkey is forming the marauding
bands of Albania into bodies that will be
employed to invade Thessaly. The Greek
•government Is fully alive to danger in
this direction, and is hastening troops
to the frontier to resist any attempted
invasion of Grecian territory.
It is reported that a collision has al
ready occurred between the troops and
Albanians on the frontier.
PREMATURE EXPLOSION
Of a Shell Docs More Damage Than a
Detachment of Rebels. ,
Havana. Feb. 12.—A shell accidentally
exploded today at the powder works at
Cayo Puto, Havana bay, wounding three
soldiers, one seriously. The shell was be
ing loaded at the time the explosion oc
curred.
Fernando Pino Hernandez, Ambrosia
Garcia and Ignacio Sandoval, naturalized
American citizens, who were under ar
rest here, have been turned over to Con
sul General Lee on condition that they
leave the Island.
The Marquis de Palmerola and Indent
Fagoaga returned today from Caibarien,
after visiting Capt. General Weyler.
WANTED IN KENTUCKY.
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 12.—The police
arrested John Berryman, alias J. W.
Adams, here this afternoon on telegraph
ic orders from Covington, Ky. It is not
known for what offense the man Is
wanted. The man arrested has been liv
ing at the best 'hotels here under the
name of J. W. Adams, but the police are
confident that he is the John Berryman
wanted in Covington.
WEYLER’S DONATION.
Havana, Feb. 12.—A dispatch from
Port Calbirlen, in the Santa Clara prov
ince, says that Capt.-Gen. Weyler has
donated.to the public treasury the sum
of 2.000,000 francs out of his private
funds towards meeting the expenses of
thd government In prosecuting the cam
paign against the Cuban insurgants.
NEW BISHOP OF WILMINGTON.
Charleston, 9. C„ Feb. 12.—Father J. J.
Managhan, pastor of St. Patrick’s par
ish, of tlris city, was officially notified to
day by Cardinal Gibbons of his appoint
ment as bishop of Wilmington, Del.
Father Managhan is 44 years old, and
a native of Sumter, 9. C. He is widely
known and greatly beloved throughout
the state.
AN EDITOR IN TROUBLE.
Columbus, 0., Feb. 12.—J. L. Patterson,
editor of the Portsmouth (Ohlb) Times,
waa sentenced to Jail for three days and
fined 1100 by Judge Milner this morning
for publication of a contemptuous crit
icism of the court’s decision.
SCOVEL 6 NOT HI OFFICER
Col. Perez Carlo, Chief of Maceo’s
Staff,
DENIES THE ASSERTION
Made by Minister De Lome that the World Cor
respondent Had Enlisted.
INSURGENTS AGAIN REPULSED
According to Spanish Reports They Are
Being Slaughtered by Wholesale—
Emilo Nunez and Others Ar
rested in Havana.
Jacksonville, Fla., Feb, 12.—Colonel
Perez Carlo, dispatch chief of the staff
of the late General Maceo, Is in the city.
He is well versed as to the state of af
fairs in Cuba, and Is well acquainted
with Sylvester Scovel, the correspondent
under arrest In Cuba, and the circum
stances that attended his presence in the
Cuban line.
In speaking of Scovel, Colonel Carlo
said: "Sylvester Scovel has never re
ceived a commlssion-from General Maceo,
and I am In a good position to know It
If such a thing had taken place. Scovel,
Beyson, Woodward and other correspond
ents visited the Cuban camp and it was
the custom for them to march with the
staff officers as was suggested and main
tained by the generals of the armies as rj
courtesy to all correspondents.
"The statement of Dupuy de Lome,
Spanish minister at Washington, that
Scovel Is a commissioned officer in the
Cuban army, is not true, for he joined
the Cuban forces at a camp called La
Reforma. In Santa Ksplritu, after we
had crossed the trocha at Moron, and did
so as a correspondent from the New York
World. He addressed General Gomez
first, and afterwards General Maceo, and
during the entire time while with us, he
marched with the staff officers by the re
quest of the commanders of the different
armies. At one time he was with General
Gomez, and at other times he stayed with
Maeeo’s command, changing as he liked
and having nn restrictions thrown about
him as would have been the case had he.
been an officer under commission from
either of the generals.
"Ho was never known to have marched
with us as an officer or with any authori
ty to command a single man. He did not
desire It and would not have accepted
It had It been offered.”
In speaking of the same affair, Gen.
Nunez said this morning: "Scovel was
in this city about a month ago and told
me of his intentions of going into the Cu
ban camps, and I asked him to take some
letters to Gen. Maceo, and he said in re
ply, ‘my Instructions from my paper are
of such a nature that I cannot do It, an<*
will not do anything in any way whatso
ever that might be construed as a help
to the Cubans. 1 am directed to remain
neutral and state only the truth in re
gard to affairs in Cuba.”
MORE WAR NEWS.
Reports of Engagements in Which the
Spaniards Came Out Victorious.
Havana, F b. 12.—Advices have been
received here that a party of rebels made
an attack! upon the Spanish steamer
Fausto, at Media Luna, a port near Man
zanillo, when Commander Pon, on board
the Spanish gunboat Cuba Espanola,
came up and opened fire on the rebels,
driving them away and compelling them
to leave their dead behind them. The
Cuba Espanola then retired, but, as the
rebels came back after the gunboat left
and renewed their attack on the steamer,
Commander Pon returned and again
opened fire on t'hem, this time dispers
ing them with considerable loss. - Pon
then proceeded to the San Juan river,
where he dispersed a party of rebels and
captured a boat which they had used.
Commander Cardrera, commander of
the Spanish gunboat Vumuri, had beaten
and dispersed a party of rebels at Pun
ta Pil-ota, in the Puerto Principe prov
ince, which had made an attack on the
gunboat.
Military Commander Madruga has de
feated a strong party of rebels on the
Condem ranch, in the Havana province.
The rebels lost thirty men killed and
wounded and the troogs lost five killed
and two missing. The camp of the rebels
was destroyed and a large quantity of
arms and ammunition and a number of
cattle were captured by the troops. A
fight has also taken place at Palisadas
Carrillo, In the Plnar del Rio provoice,
in which eight rebels were killed.
The Gerona battalion, in conjunction
with the gunboat Relna Christina, has
ihad an engagement with a party of reb
els in Pinar del Rio province in which
nine of the enemy were killed.
United States Vice-Consul J. A. Spring
er has returned to Havana.
Emllo Nunez and a number of other
persons charged with the crime of re
bellion have been arrested.
TURNED THE TABLES.
Owners of the Dauntless Claim to Have
Grounds For Damages.
Jacksonville, Fla.. . Feb. 12.—Judge
Locke, of the United States court In ses
sion at Tampa, today, refused to grant
a temporary injunction restraining the
collector of the port of Jacksonville, and
the commander of the revenue cutter
Boutwell, from interfering with the move
ments of the filibustering steamer Daunt
less. as long as she Is engaged In the
towing and wrecking business.
Application for the restraining order
was made by the owner of the Dauntless,
but the court declined to go into a hearing
of the case until ne*t Wednesday. It is
believed that by that time the supreme
court will have decided the case brought
by the government against the Three
Friends, which was decided by Judge
Locke in favor of the vessel, and which
was taken up on appeal.
Today the steamer Dauntless was held
up by the revenue cutter Boutwell in the
St. John's river, in: front of this city.
The Dauntless started down the river to
tow a schypner, ijut the cutter brought
he? to with a blast fronnher whistle and
the opening- ef a gun port. The owner
of the Daurttless"says that he now has
another good case for damages against
the federal officials for unlawfully detain
ing! the Dauntless while she was engaged
in legltip^te business.
STRONGER EVERT DAT.
Steady improvement in health follows
the use of Anheuser-BtMh’s Malt-Nu
trine—the food drink. IUTs the greatest
of all malt tonics. Appetising and nour
ishing. At all druggists.
WHAT DDES IT ALL MEAN ?
Private Secretary to Ex-Queen
Liliuokalani
ISSUES A PUBLIC DOCUMENT
In Which He Claims the Signature to the Ab
dication
TO BE ABSOLUTELY WORTHLESS
Charges Coercion and Intrigue Used by the
“Ring of Adventurers” to Extort the
Crown From Her Majesty’s Hands
—Something of a Mystery.
Washington, Feb. 12.—In the retinue of
ex-Queen Lilluokaiina, of Hawaii, and
known as her private secretary, is a
gentleman from Boston named Julius A.
Palmer. Secretary Palmer has given to
the press a letter In which he sets forth
the view entertained by those around
her ex-highness. The abdication is null
and void, he asserts, because the docu
ment was signed under duress, and the
paper, likewise, was worthless because
the signatures attached is not Lilluoka
lani's official signature.
Palmer introduces his subject with an
expression of appreciation of the kind
ness with which the deposed queen has
been received in this country. Some ex
tracts from the letter follow:
Do I mean that the queen of Hawaii
has never given a legal abdication, that
she Is still the lawful ruler, even if she
forbears to enforce her legitimate rights?
I do mean exactly that. On the 7th
of January, 1895, she was arrested for
no specific charged offense, taken by
force and confined alone in the Iolani
palace, now called the executive build
ing. She was alone and ill, when the
interference of Minister Willis was need
ed every moment to prevent a general
m issaere of those of every nation who
w : e supposed tobe quietly faithful to the
constitutional monarch. Even prisoners
were kept locked in their cells by their
captors lest they should be taken out
and hung by the excited adherents of
the provisional government. Under these
circumstances, without a friend to ad
vise her, she was told that those she
dearly loved, her personal friends, were
awaiting execution and that the only act
which would save their lives was an act
of abdication to be signed by her. The
ring of adventurers knew their victim;
had they proposed her Immediate death
they could not have terrified her, but to
save those she loved, she executed the
documents you publtshd.
It was an act consummated under the
plainest kind of duress, void even had it
been legally executed.
hut the signature is worthless even to
a collector of autographs. It is not the
affinal signature.
'uhere was no such person recognized
as Lilluokaiina Domis, and is no such
person to this day.
in their excessive caution, instead of
taking her signature as Liiiuokaiani, Re
gina. the only form of signature which
could have bound even a valid act, they
sought to teach her the grace and hu
mility by asking for the signature of Mrs.
Dominis; they got it, and little good it
would rlo them in any legal contest. They
sin.ply over-reached themselves.
"No question Is ever settled until it is
settled right, and that the whole Ha
waiian matter should be properly re
viewed is the opinion of a great many of
the people of the United States.
In an official history, written by one of
the opposition party, Mr. W. D. Alexan
dra published for the Hawaiian board of
education, I find on the front page one
of the best pictures I have seen of her
majesty, Queen Liiiuokaiani. At its close
I notice three pages devoted to showing
her genealogy in a direct line for 100
years or so from the ruling family of
Hawaii. The frontispiece was well chos
en because Liiiuokaiani has always been
known for years before her reign, and
when upon the throne, as the patroness
of music, education and the fine arts.
The only reception she has been willing
to give in Washington was to a school,
and the only time she has opened her
lips in public in America was to encour
age the pupils. But in that history I
read that it was ancient and common
law in Hawaii that no chief could ever
be degraded from that high office to
which birth alone is the only passport;
the friends of Liiiuokaiani in America or
in Hawaii 'are willing to stand on that
record that the letter Is an Inspired pre
sentation there can be no doubt.
That it emanated directly from her is
another matter, and one in which Mr.
Palmer today declined to commit him
self. When asked whether it had been
submitted to her for her approval before
it was sent, Mr. Palmer declined to an
swer one way or the other.
"If the press should regard It,” said
he, "as an authorized presentation of the
queen’s position, I should never take the
trouble to deny It. I am willing to stand
by the truth of every statement In the
letter, and from a royalist point of view,
it cannot be questioned. Her name is not
Liiiuokaiani Dominis.
"Before her marriage to Gen. Dominis,
her name was Lydia Kamakaeha. When
she succeeded the late king, her brother,
on the throne of Hawaii, she did so under
the title of Liiiuokaiani. The signature
of Liiiuokaiani Dominis Is, therefore,
meaningless and of no value on any
paper.”
Secretary Palmer declined to express
any opinion as to the ex-queen’s future
plans.
DISCSSION OF THE TREATY.
Washington, Feb. 12.—The senate com
mittee on foreign relations will tomor
row morning endeavor to frame an
amendment that will meet the objections*
that have been advanced In debate
agal.ist the general treaty of arbitration
^tvith Great Britain, which has been under
discussion in secret session for the past
week. Unless this amendment can be
satisfactorily framed it is probable that
the consideration of the treaty may not
be pushed until after the fourth of
March.
The debate so far has shown that not
five m^.n in the senate look at this treaty
from identically the same standpoint.
It is charged with being ambiguous, but
this defect is found by different men in
different portions of the Instrument. That
It will be amended before being ratified
Is admitted by its best friends. The
amendments are, in fact, the only things
that will save It, for few, If any, agree
I
with Senator Turple that the treaty Is
perfect as It stands. Mr. Turple’s posi
tion Is based upon his own construction of
the terms of the convention and If the
senate was able to bring itself to think as
Mr. Turple does, the treaty would be
ratified without a moment’s delay. '
The Indiana senator's speech has, how
ever, made a strong impression, and his
Ideas have suggested to the committee an
amendment which will be patterned after
that which Mr. Morgan yesterday gave
notice that he would offer at the proper
time. This will change article 1 so that
it will provide for the submission under
this treaty, for arbitration of all sub
jects, subject to the limitations of this
treaty "and In the manner and form pro
vided by either of the contracting par
ties for the negotiation and ratification
of treaties."
This, it is claimed, will make the In
tent of the senate clear and provide that
every subject to be submitted to this
tribunal must be first submitted to the
president and by him to the senate, as
now provided for In the case of original
treaties.
In this manner the objection that the
senate is yielding Its prerogative is met
nnd that body maintains control of every
matter connected with the subject of ar
bitration. This Is the amendment which
Mr. Sherman will submit tomorrow In an
effort to bring about speedy action. The
debate today was begun by Mr. Stewart,
who laid some additional strees upon the
necessity for eliminating the Alaskan
boundary question, and pointed out in
what particular he believed the treaty to
be both vague and Indefinite.
-ur. macKDurn, or Kentucky, was
against the treaty, and was ready to
vote. It seemed idle to consume more
time, for, as he believed, every man in the
senate knew Just how he intended to
vote. This treaty went entirely too far
in its scope. Still he had no fear of war
from anything that might be in the
treaty; war was more likely to come from
the things that were not included. It
would be safe enough to leave the ques
tion of arbitration to the senate when the
cases arose and let the senate then in
existence deal with the subject.
Mr. Hoar, of Massachusetts, said he
would vote for the treaty as it reached
the senate, or he would vote for it as
amended. What he wanted was a treaty
of arbitration, and the sooner the senate
ratified this treaty the better he thought
it would be for the country.
Mr. Chandler, of New Hampshire, gave
no decided expression as to how he stood.
He might vote for the treaty If amended.
He favored the committee amendments,
but Intimated that others might be nec
essary to make the instrument perfect
and thoroughly protect the interests of
the country. If the amendments were
rejected, he should vote against the
treaty. Mr. Chandler called attention to
the fact that there was wide divergence
of opinion in the senate among several
able gentlemen as to what this treaty
did or did not do, and he suggested that
it -would be best to let it go over until a
more convenient season. Senators’ obli
gation required that they should give
this thing their careful consideration. It
should be fully discussed. For this rea
son he urged that it go over until the
senate convened after March 4. There
would be then two weeks when the sen
ate would have nothing to do but consid
er nominations, and plenty of time would
be given to this treaty, and a better con
clusion could be reached than now, when
the effort was being made to hurry the
consideration of so important a matter so
as not to interfere with other legisla
tion.
Mr. Daniels antagonized the treaty on
general principles, as being disadvant
ageous to the United States. Cases for
arbitration rvere no; so numerous that
a general treaty should be provided.
Each case should be mtt when it came
up. He also criticised that provision
which makes the members of the supreme
court members of the tribunal. The mem
bers of that court would, in all proba
bility, he said, be called on at some time,
either before or after the arbitration, to
sit judicially on the same or similar ques
tions.
To be compelled to act in this dual
capacity would be embarrassing to the
members of the court and might militate
against their sitting on the bench in cer
tain cases. Such contingency ought not
to be made possible.
The treaty found one of its strongest
advocates in Senator Lodge, who urged
that action be taken. He declared that
he was not irrevocably joined to the
committee amendments. He would fa
vor any amendment that might be sug
gested that would remove the doubt ex
isting in the treaty, if such amendment
would be oonduclve to action. He did
not believe the treaty coukl possibly be
ratified unless it was amended somewhat
on the lines of the committee amend
ment. He favored the treaty because ar
bitration was the policy of this country
and he believed in the American policy.
He wanted the treaty to pass, and for
that reason hoped the amendment that
might be framed would be satisfactory
to the senate.
Mr. Sherman then made tne statement
that was construed as an intimation that
the committee intended to consider the
treaty again in special session tomorrow
morning. He said that if the discussion
went over until tomorrow morning, he
thought the committee would be able to
bring in an amendment or amendments
that would remove all doubts and ambi
guity from the text of the treaty. When
this was done he hoped the senate would'
be able to come to a speedy vote. If
proved not to be the case, then Mr. Sher
man said he would not feel Justified in
pressing the consideration of the treaty
further to the hindrance of the business
that was pressing the senate.
Mr. Hill replied jocularly that the sen
ate was to understand that If the oppo
sition to the treaty would hold out until
tomorrow the senator from Ohio would
■withdraw the treaty from further con
sideration. Mr. Sherman denied that this
interpretation was Just, and the senate
adjourned.
The amendment indicated above will
be reported to the senate tomorrow when
the treaty is again taken up.
THIRD BIG SNOW
To Visit New York Came With a Ven
geance and Lasted All Day.
New York, Feb. 12.-^Thls city experi
enced the third big snow storm of the
winter today. Nearly eight Inches of
snow had fallen at 6 o’clock this after
noon. Much of It came down in the form
of sleet, turning to snow of the consist
ency of coarse salt as It struck the
ground.
A high northeast wind, gradually in
creasing to a gale prevailed all day.
Shipping was warned all along the At
lantic ports to Btay safely In port. Travel
was delayed In this city and snow plows
and sweepers were kept busy all day
clearing tihe lines of steam and surface
railroads. The fact that It was a public
holiday operated to obviate any serious
disturbance of traffic.
The storm began at 3 a. m. and stopped
falling at 6 p. m. The temperature re
mained stationary about 21 degrees all
day.
SENATOR HARRIS IMPROVING.
"Washington, Feb. 12.--Senator Harris
passed a eopifortabie day. He has be
gun to develop an appetite and took more
nourishment today than any day since
his sickness began. -
THE GREEKS MEAN BUSINESS
Will Prevent Turkish Reinforce
ments to Land
DESPITE THE POWERS
Cretans Awaiting a Lar^ '''-ipment of Arms
and ivy £
— V
fHE FRANCO-RUS' SCHEME LET OUT
/
In a Proposal i ^ ■•ahce’s Foreign Minis
ter—Italy * J Hands Off-Otlier
P/ a Condemn the
V-tlbn of Greece.
Athens, Feb. 13,-1:15 a. m.—The great
est excitement prevails here. The news
papers have Issued midnight editions con
taining a report that the Valley of Smyr
na has chartered a steamer for the pur
pose of transporting troops to Crete, and
this in face of the assurances given to
the powers by the porte that Turkey
would not send reinforcements to the
island.
The newspapers and the crowds in the
streets declare that the action of the
Vali is taken with the full cognizance of
the porte, which again proved. If proof
Is necessary, that not the slightest con
fidence can be placed in its assurances
or promises.
Hearty denunciations of the Turkish
government are heard on every hand.
The city is alive at this hour, and the
principal streets are filled with Greeks,
who demand that the Grecian warships
shall prevent the further landing of
troops in Crete. It is believed here that
orders to that effect have already been
given to Prince George, nnd there Is no
doubt that he will fully carry out his
instructions, in which case war with Tur
key would probably result, unless diplo
macy of superior force should he em
ployed to divert. Greece from her de
termination to protect the Grecian Chris
tians, and also, perhaps, to bring about
the long sought for annexation of tha
island.
WILL, PREVENT LANDING.
Of Turkish Troops—Cretans Ready and
Waiting for Arms and Munition.
London, Feb. 12.—The Greek charge
d’affairs here has informed Lord Salis
bury that his government has decided to
prevent the Turks from landing any re
inforcements upon the island of Crete.
A dispatch from Constantinople says
that 3,000 Cretan Insurgents are known to
be concentrated in the vicinity of Canea,
awaiting the arrival of arms, ammuni
tion amr-eepftpment from Sphaiea, on the
south coast, near the extremity of the
Island of Crete, where they have been
landed by expeditions from Greece. When
these supplies are received, the dis
patch says, it is the intention of the In
surgents to make an attack upon Canea,
The dispatch adds that the Turkish au
thorities are now convinced that the
pacification of the island can only be ef
fected by European occupation. ,
HALEPA NEUTRAL GROUND.
Consuls Promised Timely Notice Should
Canea Be Attacked.
Canea, Feb. 12.—The Cretans and the
foreign consuls here have agreed that
Halepa shall be regarded as neutral ter
ritory until an attack shall be made on
Canea. In the event of such an attack
being directed upon Canea, the consuls
shall have twenty-four hours notice.
The commander of the Greek warships
has promised the commanders of the
other war vessels to give them forty
hours notice in the event of his attack
ing the town.
Prince George, the commander of Ue
Greek torpedo fleet, has not yet arrived
here.
FRANCO-RUSSIAN
Exposed Through the Proposals of Hano
taux, the French Minister.
London. Feb. 12.—M. Hanotaux, the
French foreign minister, has initiated
proposals that the powers blockade Crete
and that they also occupy Canea. Retimo
and the other centers of disorder, pending
a settlement of the dispute, that will be
satisfactory to the Cretans. Active ne
gotiations on these proposals are now
proceeding.
A high authority at the foreign office
today told a representative of the South
ern Associated Press that he believed
the proposals of M. Hanotaux were a
Franco-Russian scheme to permit Greece
to occupy the island, with Prince George,
second son of the king of the Hellenes,
as governor general, the Island continu
ing to pay tribute to Turkey.
MOSLEMS REPULSED.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 12.—George B. Roteh
Pasha, the Christian governor of Crete,
having been menaced by Moslems, has
taken refuge in the Greek consulate and
his wife has found asylum at the French
consulate pending their departure from
the island. The Christians, after a pwi
longed fight, have driven th- Moslems
into.Canea and are now holding the su
burbs of the town.
POWERS CONDEMN GREECE.
London, Feb. 12.—The Morning Post
will tomorrow publish a News agency
statement that the powers are unanimous
in their condemnation of the attitude of
Greece and that they will not allow her
to continue her present course She
must, It adds, abandon the Idea of com
mencing a war with Turkey.
ITALY FRIENDLY WITH GREECE.
Rome, Feb. 12.—A semi-official note has
been issued here stating that Italy will
not oppose Greece in any action the lat
ter country may take on the Cretan
question. It is add d that Italy does not
wish to serve Turkey in any way.
WAR INEVITABLE
Berlin, Feb. 12.—The Post, of this city,
this evening published an arllcle in which
it says that war between Greece and
Turkey is almost inevitable. The paper
adds that Turkey is entitled to allow her
troops to cross the Thessalian frontier In
view of the action of Greece.
CRETE TO BE BLOCKADED.
Vienna, Feb. 12.—It is reported here
that a blockade of Crete by the European
powers will be established shortly.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 ' BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1897.-TWELVE PAGES. NUMBER 24
THE mm SITUATION
Will Greece Be Upheld in Her
Holy War?
QUESTION OF THE HOUR
Germany, France and Even England Charged
With Stirring Strife.
THOUGH NONE DARE UTTER BLAME
Should Salisbury Resent Greece’s Action
He Would Cover With Shame the
Namo and Flag of England—
The Situation Delicate.
3 -
London, Feb. 13.—(Copyright 1897 by
the Sun Printing and Publishing Associa
tion.)—It would be easy to present the
array of authentic information from
Athens, Crete and Constantinople in such
a way us to indicate that war is inevita
ble and close at hand. There are some
observers in all European capitals, es
pecially Berlin, who take that view of the
situation and are alarmed accordingly.
Even t'he stock exchanges, which are,
after all, the best political barometers in
Europe, indicated for a day or two that
a storm had been impending. There is
no doubt that if the future developments
depend solely on those directly concern'd,
namely, the Turks, Greeks and Cretans,
there would be fighting within a week on
both sea and land. Everybody knows,
however, that the progress of the quarrel
is not within the control of those actually
involved and that there will be no blows
exchanged unless at least one of the great
powers is willing that war should come.
The solution of the problem really lies in
the answer to the question, has the rep
resentative of one of the six powers
whispered in one ear of Greece: “Now
is your opportunity; go ahead; take Crete
and we will keep our hands off.”
Some loud voices in France and many
more in Germany are accusing England
of having done Just that thing. No one
of them, however, has suggested even a
plausible motive which would lead Great
Britain to adopt such a course.
On the other hand there are overwhelm
ing reasons why Great Britain should
be the most strenuous of all in suppress
ing a disturbance until the powers had an
opportunity of enforcing on the sultan
the scheme of reforms which has just
been formulated.
One would naturally suspect Germany
herself or France of inciting the mis
chief for the purpose of discomfiting Lord
Salisbury, who from the first has been
the leader in urging harmonious action in
dealing with the sultan. There is, as
a matter of fact, no adequate motive vis
ible, which would lead any great power
to create this fresh and dangerous com
plication at a moment when the virtual
settlement of the Turkish question seems
within reach. There docs exist, how
ever, ample and obvious incentives to
induce the crafty and still potent sultan
to seek once more to set his mentors by
the ears by means of a fresh crisis in
Crete. It seemed after a week ago that
he was not directly responsible for the
recurrence of the troubles there, but there
have been many indications since that
his subtle cunningness instigated the
whole affair. The one luminous and hope
ful feature of the situation is the fact
that thus far the powers have maintained
their unity of attitude. The pugnacious
Greeks sent off their fleet with instruc
tions to prevent by force any fresh Turk
ish troops from landing in Crete. The
powers had no opportunity to prevent
this step, but they promptly and unitedly
notified Greece she would not be per
mitted to interfere on the island itself and
at the same time offset a chance collision
by preventing the porte from sending any
more troops. The sultan's scheme has
therefore been a failure up to date, and
It remains to be seen what his next move
will be. The situation on the whole has
not reached an ominous or threatening
stage in the view of those persons in
whose judgment I have the greatest con
fidence and although it contains elements
of serious danger, as It has for more than
eighteen months, it does not justify any
grave forebodings with regard to the
peace of Europe.
There is another view of the crisis in
Crete, and Turkey, which should not be
lost sight of. These fresh troubles prove
anew that a radical solution of the Turk
ish problem is absolutely imperative, and
that all hope In allowing the Ottoman
empire to exist in peace under the full
sovereignty of the present sultan is in
vain. The Spectator, today, in a gloomy
article on the situation, emphasizes the
necessity of drastic measures, and says:
"Europe will not permit the sultan and
his Asiatic hordes to threaten its peace
every minute, and as Crete cannot be left
to itself. It must be handed over to Greece
ad interim, the arrangement to be after
wards ratified by a European conference.
That will pacify the island, as the Mus
sulmans will either submit or fly to Asia
Minor, but then the gravest of all dan
gers will arise. The Mussulman mob of
Constantinople may endeavor to take
vengeance upon the Greeks of the capi
tal, and it is doubtful whether Abdul
Hamid has either the power or wish to
restrain their ferocity. The Greeks, of
course, however, exceed 200,900. They
have been arming for months, ana it is
exceedingly doubtful If they can be sum
marily suppressed. They are not like the
Armenians In tefhper, and If driven to
desperation they would raise a formida
ble civil war, which would, in a few days,
compel the powers to occupy Constanti
nople, the precise danger which they
have been all dreading. Matters may go
differently, because the sultan and a few
of hi3 advisers must be aware that a
massacre of Greeks would be the begin
ning of the end for Ottoman rule, but
the danger is undoubtedly great and im
minent.
It has not been lessened by the fact
that the Macedonians, who are only
awaiting an opportunity, will probably
seize this, and by a simultaneous rising
compel the states of eastern Europe to
show their hands and decide whether they
are for or against Asiatic rule In Europe.
These statements may be considered sen
sational, but we take it to be certain that
horror of Abdul Hamid has entered too
deeply into the souls of the Christian
populace of European Turkey to allow
any palliative to be effectual, and that if
he continues to reign no lull of a week
or a month can in any degree remove thd
danger of an explosion.
There is no doubt some basis Is for
the dark forecast, but it has to be consid
ered with the larger question whether
the sultan will in the end submit to the
demands of the powers which will soonhe
placed ljefore him. That Is the critical
point of the situation and nobody ex
cept Abdul Hamid himself can decide
It. The present troubles In Crete and
the activity of Greece are of small con
sequence compared with it.
One feature of the week’s events has
appealed strongly to all decent minded
Englishmen who care little about the
intricacies of international politics. It is
the spectacle of little Greece standing
up in bold defiance of the bloodthirsty
tyrant in Constantinople, against whom
no greater power has thus far dared
to raise its hand. There is an undoubted
feeling of popular sympathy and admira
tion throughout Europe which is so
strong that the callous diplomatists who
consider it their duty to interfere will
find it necessary to be very careful and
considerate in their admonitions to the
Greek king, or their own constituents
who resent their action as much as the
Greeks themselves. Lord Salisbury, for
instance, Would find a furious storm rag
ing about his ears if he put himself In the
humiliating attitude of defender of the
suitan against righteous Greek wrath.
Public opinion is already telling him In
double leaded language that such action
“would cover tvith shame the name and
flag of England.”
There Is. In fact, a tendency to make
Prince George a popular hero in Eng
land, and his departure on the Greek fleet
to keep the Turks nut of Crete is regard
ed by the English masses in much the
same light as it is by his own country
men.
A DECIDED SENSATION.
Paris, Feb. 13.—An article on the situa
tion In Crete In the Gaulols, says that the
king of Greece in November last gave the
government to understand that his fur
ther resistance to the aspirations of the
people of Greece is impossible and he was,
therefore, compelled to seek closed rela
tions with Austria and Great Britain, the
disposition of Russia being unfriendly.
The paper also asserts that a report
which has been received here that the
German emperor made an announcement
yesterday that he would adhere to the
policy of France and Russia in the east,
caused a sensation in diplomatic circles.
The Gaulois concludes by warning Ger
many that the question of Alsace-Lor
raine will not be lost sight of by France.
SUPPLIES LANDED.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 13.—The Greek flo
tilla, commanded by Prince George, of
Greece, which arrived here last evening,
is reported to have landed a quantity of
arms, ammunition and provisions, in
tended for the Cretan Insurgents during
the night. Part of the Greek flotilla has
gone to Retimo. The insurgents in large
numbers are occupying the hills around
the town of Canea, awaiting the arrival
of arms and ammunition.
THE NlTlPiPITIOUS
And the Vesuvius Went Through
the Lines.
WITH STARTLING ' EASE
Officers on the Battleships Claim It Was Not a
Fair Test—Search Lights Prove
Absolutely Worthless.
Charleston, S. C„ Feb. 13.—They say
down at Admiral Bunce’s fleet today that
It was neither a fair nor an official test,
but the fact still remains that the Vesu
vius ran the blockade into the harbor
last night with an ease that startled the
squadron. The run was made early in
the evening, the cruiser crossing the
dead-line and whistling a notice of her
success at 7:32 o’clock.
Statements have been made to the ef
fect that the Vesuvius also ran the block
ade on the first night that she Joined the
fleet, but these are absolutely incorrect.
An officer from one of the warships who
saw the dynamiter come In is the author
ity for this statement. Everybody is, of
course excited over the event of last
night. The officers of the blockading line,
of course, make very little of the achieve
ment of the cruiser, but the men of the
Vesuvius look at it in a different light.
The orders for the ships to fall into the
blockading line were signalled from the
flagship a bit earlier than usual. The
four ships then on duty, the battleship
Maine, flagship New York, battleship In
diana and cruiser Columbia, steamed to
the southward, taking pusitions at in
tervals of 3,000 yards. Shortly after 6
o’clock the Vesuvius drew away to the
south also and was soon lost in the fog.
Tho weather had been bad for several
days, and as -night came on a fog settled
down upon the face of the water that
kept every fog bell out beyond Sumter
ringing. At 7 o'clock the test was well
begun. The blockading ships brought
their searchlights into play, and it was
then for the first time that they began
to realize how small was their chance
for detecting the Vesuvius. The lights,
which usually throw a path of brilliant
radiance for 3,000 yards over the water,
proved utterly Inadequate to the task of
penetrating the fog. Objects 300 yards
away could hardly be distinguished with
the aid of the most powerful of the search
lights, and when It Is remembered that
the ships were 3,000 yards apart, it will
be readily imagined that the Vesuvius
had pretty much everything her own
way. She had gone several milts to sea
and then returned. As she approached
the blockading line all of h»r lights were
shrouded and orders were given in hushed
tont s.
The little cruiser can under favorable
circudmstanoes, make a.' little better
than twenty-two knots, but she did not
tax her capacity last night. Her engines
were brought down to a normal speed
and heading in between two of the fleet,
she nan straight into the harbor without
an iota of trouble. All the precautions
which she had taken to escape detection
were useless, for In that fog she could
have come in just as well with all her
lights going and never been seen.
The matter was made very light of on
the fleet today, and it was claimed that
the test'could not be counted as a fair
one
It is a little difficult, however, to grasp
the cogency of this reasoning. It is true
that only four ships were on duty, the
Amphltrite and Marblehead both being
in port, and it Is likewise true that the
n'ght was favorable to the blockade run
ner; but It might be observed that were
the Vesuvius a real bloekader she would
probably have selected Just such weather
for her expedition and Admiral Runce
knew he did not have but four of his
ships in line when he gave the Vesuvius
her orders. The Vesuvius seems to have
demonstrated fairly well on the whole
that four of Uncle Sam’s best warships
would not be able to keep a bloekader
out of Charleston harbor. AM she would
have to do would be to wait for a heavy
fog and then run in between the lines.
The result of (he attempt to be made to
p'.ght will be waited with Interest. The
battleship Massachusetts Joined the fleet
today and the Amphltrite has resumed
her place In the line: the attempt conse
quently will be made with six ships in
action
The weather Is clear and conditions are
faj more propitious for the fleet.
JOINT RESOLUTION PASSED
By the Senate Without a Single
Objection.
SOMETHING VERY UNUSUAL
As the National Lawmakers Have Been Very
Dilatory of Late.
MORGAN WAS AGAIN THWARTED
By Shorman in an Attempt to Speak on
the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty—House In
dulges in Some Sharp Speeches
Over the Sundry Civil Bill.
Washington, Feb. 13.—The senate to
day, without question, and without a mo
ment’s consideration, passed a Joint reso
lution Introduced by Mr. Perkins, to have
a naval vessel placed at the disposal of
the San Francisco chamber of commerce
to transport wheat and coTn contributed
by California, Oregon and other states
for the relief of the famine-stricken poor
of India. Instead of a naval vessel, the
secretary of the navy may charter a
suitable American steamship. The nec
essary appropriation is provided.
A resolution was offered by Mr. Petti
grew, and was agreed to directing an
inquiry Into the Issue of land patents
on what is known as the Ferrlne grant
in Florida. This was an old claim which!
the late secretary of the interior, Mr.
Smith, refused to recognize, but which
the present secretary has recognized; and
as the Perrlne In question Is related by
marriage to the president of the United
States, an interest is given to the in
quiry which it might not otherwise
have.
An effort was made by Mr. Morgan to
have the business of the morning hour
continued so that he might address the
the senate on the joint resolution intro
duced by him yesterday for the abro
gation of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty.
The chairman of the committee on for
eign relations, Mr. Sherman, however,
insisted on a motion to proceed to execu
tive business, and a majority of the
senate sided with him. And so at twenty
minutes after the noon hour the senate
resumed behind closed doors considera
tion of the arbitration treaty and at 4:45
adjourned until Monday.
IN THE HOUSE.
General debate on the sundry civil ap
propriation bill gave opportunity for sev
eral speeches upon radically different
topics ranging from the policy of river
and harbor improvements to Cuban In
dependence. The house plunged at once
into consideration of the measure. It hav
ing been taken up for a short time Fri
day afternoon. The largest single item
In the bill is the appropriation for works
in continuation of the Improvements of
rivers and harbors amounting to about
$16,000,000, and the liver ancj harbor sys
tem naturally came in for a large share
of discussion. After general speeches
on the bill by Mr. Cannon, chairman of
the committee on appropriations, and by
Mr. Sayers, the leader of the minority
on the committee, Messrs. Dockery and
Hepburn spoke against the contract sys
tem for making the improvements and
against the policy itself, and Mr. Cach
ings defended both. McMillin responded
to a statement by Mr. Hopkins that un
der republican administration of the
McKinley law it produced revenue suffi
cient to meet the expenditures of the
government with a surplus besides, criti
cised the decision of the supreme court,
which made the income tax feature of
tlie Wilson law ineffective. “But,” he
said; "tne whole country ought not to
suffer from the action of one man. Ev
erybody knows that the man who tore
down the constitution, uprooted the de
cisions of one hundred years and destroy
ed the power of the government to tax
the wealth of the country was named
Shiras, and his name should always be
remembered in connection with that rep
rehensible and ever-to-be-criticised de
cision.”
To this Mr. Grosvenor replied. He said
he should leave criticism of the supreme
court and of Mr. Shiras. who could not
respond, to the gentleman from Tennes
see. He desired, however, to let the gen
tleman have the full benefit of the propo
sition that the McKinley law was in
adequate as a revenue measure and that
the Wilson law was a splendid produc
tion. That would strike the country as
something remarkable. “The McKinley
latv,” Mr. Grosvenor asserted, "produced
not only revenue for the expenditures of
the government, but a surplus as well,
until God for some reason which he has
not made known, menaced the future of
the countiy by permitting the election of
Grover Cleveland and a democratic con
gress.”
Mr. Dearmond, referring to Mr. Grcs
venor's reply to Mr. McMillin’s “just
criticism” of the supreme court in the
matter of the Income decision, said he
yielded to the decisions of the supreme
court that general respect which every
lawyer was taught was due to the law
tribunal of the nation. But,” he con
tinued, "I belong to that class of people
and represent a constituency who do not
believe that any Institution of the coun
try or any person or body engaged In ad
ministering the affairs of the nation Is so
sacred that it is not subject to just criti
cism. One of the greatest menaces to the
prosperity and progress of the republic
lies In the usurpations by the judiciary in
the use of that subtle, never ceasing
power which overturns the decisions of
a hundred years, affects the elections of
presidents and makes strange law by
strange methods.”
Speaking of the reported action of Mr.
Justice Shiras, Mr. Dearmond said: “He
changed his mind ini such a way as to lift
from wealth a tax of from forty to sixty
millions a year, and transfer it to poverty
and to it. Men may change their minds,
but when forty to sixty millions annually
are in the scale, and a trained judge,
without argument and additional light
changes his mind, why should there not
be comment on it? His name will be kept
alive, not in honor, but because the Amer
ican people have been outraged by him.”
He would go further, Mr. Dearmond
said, and charge that the crime of the
hour was that the power of the judiciary
was not more strictly limited. There was
a sentiment in the house and senate both,
which tended to minimize the power of
■the legislature and to secure additional
power to the executive and to the su
preme court. There was every reason
why the legislative power should be
strengthened, that it might more properly
represent the people, and why that of the
executive and the courts should be re
stricted.
Mr. Dearmond closed with a Jprvid im
passioned appeal for Intervention In be
half of the Cuban revolutionist:®. If asked '
upon what ground the intervention
(Continued on Second Page.)
I OBi'T WANT TO GO TO PAPA
Said Little Minnie Lenaghan to
a Reporter.
AN IMPORTANT ARREST
W. 0. Martin, Who Had Run Off With An
other Man's Wife and Child,
CAPTURED IN THIS CITY YESTERDAY
Were Living as Man and Wife at a Private
Boarding House—The Woman Is the
Wife of a Wealthy Tampa,
Fla., Merchant.
"I don’t want to go to papa; I don't
like papa, I likes mama,” was the answer
of a beautiful little girl of 3 years of age
to a State Herald representative yester
day afternoon in the private office of the
chief of police, as she sat by the side
of her mother, busily engaged in eating
candy. She did not realize her position
nor the trouble into which her much
loved mother had become involved.
Friday evening the local police authori
ties received a card from John F. Lenag
han, of Tampa, Fla., giving the de
scriptions of his wife, child and a man
named W. O. Martin, and asking for
their arrest. Enclosed were the portraits
of the three missing people. According
to the communication It was Mr. Lenag
han's only desire to recover his wife and
little daughter.
Immediately upon receipt of the de
scription the local officers went to work
upon the case and that they have so
soon succeeded in locating the parties
speaks volumes for their alertness and
efficiency. Messrs. G. W. Klrkley and
Hester Garner worked the case up and
went to the house w herd the parties were
stopping as man and wife, and placed
them under arrest. The working up of
the matter was under the personal di
rection of Acting Chief Will Wier, than
whom there is no better or more trust
worthy officer in the business.
The parties were taken to the chief's
private office to await an answer to tele
grams sent to the woman’s husband at
Tampa. The first message sent was that
the missing ones had been located and
held In arrest. An hour later a second
message was sent as follows: "Martin,
your wife and child are in custody. They
confess all Come at once," and was
signed by Acting Chief Wier.
MRS. DORA LENAGHAN.
Or, as she was known in this city, Mrs.
Dora Martin, Is a good looking woman of
medium height, with jet black hair, dark
eyes and dark oompexlon. She is 26
years oi'd and weighs about 120 pounds.
Her maiden name was Dora Gaskins
Butt, and she has been married to Mr.
Lenagh.n over five years. In her hus
band's v ard to the local police Mr. Lena
ghan says "she Is a native of North Caro
lina. Have reason to fear and believe
Dora'Is dead as she had heart trouble and
was likely to die. My wife has had an
unbalanced mind for years, and is not re
sponsible for her deeds.”
Soon after her arrival at the chief’s of
fice Mrs. Lenaghan made the following
statement to Met-srs. Hester, Garner and
G. W. Klrkley, acknowledging her iden
tity: She had been married a little over
five years to Mr. Lenaghan and resided
with him in Tampa. Fla. Her husband,
who conducts a wholesale grocery con
cern at that place, was always kind to
her. He furnished her home magnificent
ly, had plenty of sertants and kept a
carriage for her own use. She hail dia
monds and all kinds of jewelry she de
sired. Her every whim was gratified,
and yet she was not happy. She thought
she was until she met W. O. Martin, the
man arrested with her here, but after
that meeting she-loved him and only him.
The little girl had been christened Min
nie, but her name was changed to Jelsie.
About four months ago Mrs. Lenaghan
and her child left Tampa with Mr. Martin
and went to Chicago, from which place
they came directly here. They may have
been in other places before going to Chi
cago, as Mr. Lenaghan says that Martin
wrote him from New York last October
under the alias J. B. Anderson.
Upon their arrival here they went to a
private boarding house on Fourth avenue
between Twenty-third and Twenty
fourth streets and later to No. 2016 Fifth
avenue, where they resided up to the time
of their arrest. Martin had recently se
cured employment in this eity with the
New Home Sewing Machine company
Mrs. Lenaghan, strange to say, returns
her husband’s compliment by claiming
that he was deranged. It was on this
account, she says, and.her great love for
Martin, that she consented to leave her
elegant home of ease and luxury in Tam
pa and go with him to the outer world
as his wife. She said, rather vehemently,
that she would rather be in the peniten
tiary with Martin than to go back to her
husband. She also declared her intention
of retaining the little girl.
Mrs. Lenaghan has many diamond
rings and other gems of rare value,
among them many opals—the stone sup
posed to bring trouble and misfortune to
its owner.
After obtaining the above statement an
effort was made to interview Mrs. Lena -
ghan, but she refused to talk for publi
cation. When asked if her attorney, W.
P. McCro-sin, had so instructed her. she
replied that that was her business. She
treated the State Herald representative
politely, yet coldly, and when an effort
was made to have the little girl talk Mrs.
Leneghan expressed her disapproval and
said no information could be secured
there.
Minnie Is a bright little girl, of over 3
yeais of age; rather fair complexion and
medium light hair. She was munching
sweetmeats with a childish relish and,
in her eyes, her mother Is simply per
fection.
THE MAN IN THE CASE.
Is W. O. Martin a native of latuisiana?
He Is of medium build, with black hair
and eyes, and dark complexion. A dark
mustache anil beard adorn his face,
which give him an attractive appearance.
He is 32 years old, but does not appear so,
and is a bookkeeper by profession For
several years he was employed in a
Brunswick, Ga., bank, but last summer
followed his profession in Tampa.
An effort to secure a statement from
him failed utterly, as he said he was In
a position where he could not say a word.
Rather than make a statement, he de
cided not to correct whatever erroneous
information had been given.
When informed that the matter would
appear In this morning's paper, he be
came very angry and made violent
threats. The realisation of his position
seems to have completely unnerved him.'
East week he secured employment as
a ciii- agent for the New Home Sewing
Machine company and was in their em
ploy until yesteraay when he was arrest
ed. Mis previous occupation while In
Birmingham could not be learned as he
refused to speak even on. that subject.
UNDER SURVEILANCE.
Mre Lenaghan will not be subjected to
the indignity of being confined in the cl:y
prison, but will be placed in one of the
hotels under strict police surveilanco.
She seemed to appreciate this gr-at kind
ness, but became solicitous as to the con
dition and place of confinement of Mr.
Martin. He will be confined in the prison
cells unless he furnishes the necessary
bonds.
The police say that a number of cases
could be docketed against Martin and
if he succeeds in making the bonds, an
other case of kidnapping will be placed
opposite his name on the register.
Mrs. Lenaghan begged «nd pleaded
with the officers not to let her husband,
when he arrived, do any personal injury
to her lover. She was pacified only when
assured that he was safe, while in Jail,
from her husband’s wrath.
Mr. Lenaghan is expected to arrive in
the city tonight.
THE BOUTWELL CASE.
Argument Favoring the Application for
Injunction Heard.
Jacksonville, Fla., Feb. 13.—E. O. Lock,
clerk of the United States court for the
Southern district of Florida, returned
from Tampa this morning, where he
had been attending the February term
of the court, which convened last Mon
day.
Mr. Lock says that the judge has not
refused to grant a temporary injunction
to restraJn the collector and commander
of the Boutwell from interfering with the
movements of the steamer Dauntless.
The application for the injunction wa3
presented to the court by J. F. Hart
ridge, attorney for W. A. Bisbee, last
Thursday. Friday morning Mr. Hart
ridge called up the matter for a hearing,
but District Attorney Clark was not
ready, on account of having business be
fore the grand jury. Mr. Hartridge said
that he supposed that the government
would demur to the petition on certain
grounds, but that he was willing to stay
his grounds for the granting of the peti
tion and let Mr. Clark make his argu
ment whenever the court could hear the
case. This was agreed to, and Mr. Hart
ridge presented his side of the case, and
the court set next Wednesday for hear
ing the argument of Mr. Clark against
the motion.
As the matter now stands, the appli
cation for the Injunction Is still pend
ing, and the court has not made any an
nouncement regarding the petition for the
injunction. Mr. Hartridge returned to
Jacksonville this morning.
j, f. crookonEksonville
Appointed President of the Rail
road Commission
TO SUCCEED H. R. SHORTER
Reformatory For Youthful Criminals Knocked
Out—Immigration Committee Also.
Tomorrow an Important Day.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 13.—(Special.)—
Gov. Johnston this afternoon sent to the
senate the appointment of Hon. James
F. Crook, of Jacksonville as president of
the Alabama railroad commission, vice
MaJ. IRnry R. Shorter, of Barbour, whose
second term will expire on March 1. The
senate promptly confirmed the nomina
tion.
Col. Crook Is one of the foremost men
and democrats in the state, has always
been p warm personal and political friend
•of the governor and his appointment will
give almost universal satisfaction.
The house this morning killed the bill
providing for the establishment at Mount
Vernon of a reformatory for youthful
criminals on the ground that a $200,000
property and $15,000 cash per annum was
too much to invest in educating young
negroes, when the white boys of Ala
bama were allowed less than $1 a year
each for education.
The bill proposing the creation of an
immigration commission was also killed
because of the expense proposed.
Bills were passed prohibiting bank of
ficers from borrowing exceeding 10 per
cent. of the bank’s money and requiring
state banks to publish statements four
times a year.
The senate spent the morning consid
ering the house bill proposing to Increase
the age of consent from 10 to 14 years.
It passed in the afternoon.
The constitutional convention bill
comes up in the senate Monday and the
vote will be very close, though strong
pressure is being brought to bear on the
democrats in that body.
MADMAN’S^RASH ACT.
Kills His 4-Year-Old Son and Attempts
to Annihilate Others of the Family
and Almost Cuts Off His Head.
Lexington, Ky., Feb. 3.—The' bloodiest
domestic tragedy that ever happened
here took place at 7:45 a. m., when John
Marris killed his 4-year-old son, John;
shot his 14-year-old daughter, Helen;
tiled to kill his sister, Ida, and killed
himself. Marris was about 40 years old,
and has been a member of the firm of
M. Kaufman & Co., clothiers, for years;
was prominent In building association
circles, owned a great deal of real estate
and was considered one of the most
promising and successful of Lexington's
younger business men.
When the servant girl went Into hts
room this morning Marris sprang from
his bed, and the girl fled from the room.
When half way down the steps she heard
pistol shots. Mrs. Marris and her sister
in-law, Miss Ida Marris, a teacher In the
public schools, ran to the room. They
heard two more shots as they were go
ing up, and Mrs. Marris fainted at the
head of the steps just as her daughter,
Helen, ran out of tho room and fell. Ida
rushed Into the room. Marris felled her
with a blow, and as she fell he fired a
pistol at her.
Neighbors forced the door and found
Marris with his throat cut from ear -to
ear, his head almost severed from his
body. In his hand was a large razor
covered with blood; on the floor was a
large, old-fashioned revolver with four
empty chambers. On the bed was the
boy with a bullet Bole In the center of hla
forehead, hts throat cut from ear to ear,
and three pieces of flesh cut from the
right cheek. Helen was picked up In the
hall unconscious. A bullet had struck
her In the back of the head, ranged down
ward and lodged In her neck. She will
recover. Ida Marris’ wounds are not
dangerous, but she is badly prostrated
from the shock. Mrs. Marris Is In a pre
carious condition from nervous prostra
tion. ' ..v...,
THE TREATYJN IS POCKET
Looks Now as if it Will Have
to Await
THE SPECIAL SESSION
At -
Opposition,^ Committee Shows Greater
5'er,gth Than Before.
MORGA ? DANIEL AND CAMERON
/§ -
Fight tho Measure Even After It Is
Amended, and Mills Makes a Masterly
Speech Against Its Adoption—
Sherman’s Vain Plea.
Washington, Feb. 13.—The meeting of
the senate committee on foreign rela
tions this morning made it apparent that
no agreement could be reached on the
general treaty of arbitration with Great
Britain, that would bring the contending
factions either in committtee or in the
senate together. While Sherman was
not told so in exact words, the inference
to draw from what Morgan, Daniel and
Cameron said was that under no circum
stances could this treaty be ratified at the
present session of the senate. It is be
lieved that with the executive session
of this afternoon Sherman will cease
to press consideration of the convention
and permit other legislative business to
have the right-of-way.
After an hour and a half in discussion;
the committee this morning framed an
amendment along lines indicated in the
dispatches of the Southern Associated
Press. It is based upon an amendment
of which Morgan gave notice and puts
into language the interpretation placed
upon the convention by Tnrpie. It pro
vides that all subjects to be submitted
to arbitration under this general treaty
must be submitted after the manner and
in the form provided for submission and
ratification of treaties originally. This
removes the objections aimed at Jhe
treaty by Morgan and others to the
effect that submission of all subjects to
arbitration under the treaty as now word
ed would be left entirely to the presi
dent. If it Is amended as suggested by
the committee's action of this morning,
only such matters as have been agreed
to by the full treaty-making power of
the United States, the president and sen
ate acting jointly, cun be submitted to
an arbitrator. The power to negotiate
and conclude treaties In Great Britain
is lodged entirely in the crown and is
exercised for the crown by the premier.
There has been no suggestion that the
British treaty making power has been —
charged by the terms of this treaty and
Turpie’s contention was that in like man
ner the full treaty-making power of the
United States was to sit in Judgment
upon all subjects that ought to be taken;
before this high tribunal of arbitration.
The senate did not agree with Turpie in
his interpretation, but found it the easi
est way to a possible solution of the prob
lem confronting it, i giving expression to
that interpretation In the text of the
convention. With such amendment, the
treaty is safe guarded absolutely and
friends of the instrument say there
should not be a dissenting vote in ratify
ing it for the reason that every ques
tion could then come up before the ex
isting senate as an original proposition.
The action of the committee in adopt
ing the amendment did not bring about
harmony. On the contrary the more the
whole subject was discussed the more
evident It became that the differences
were irreconciliabie. Morgan, Daniel,
Mills and Cameron refused to consider
the treaty in a favorable light even after
they voted for the amendment. They op
posed the convenll m on general grounds
and said it was impossible for them to
believe that the country would be beno
fltted by its ratification at the present
time, at least. They refused ti listen ta
the pleading of Sherman and his asso
ciates and declined to even admit that
the amendment had accomplished what
had been sought.
The committee adjourned with a ma
jority feeling anything hut comfortable
over the outlook. Mr Sherman notified
his colleagues that he should move an
executive session early in the day for the
purpose of testing the sense of tile sen
ate and intimated, as he did on the floor
last evening, that If there was no possi
bility of a speedy vote he wool 1 not fur
ther press the consideration of the treaty.
Mr. Sherman made his demand for an
executive sesalo® a few minutes after
the senate convened, refusing to yield to
anything but the most routine of morn
Ing business.
Early in the executive session Senator
Chandler offered an amendment to the
convention in the shape of an additional
article which is, in fact, a declaration.
It states that both the contracting par
ties in making this treaty, do it for the
purpose of enunciating their belief In the
principle of International arbitration and
to bring about, if possible, the policy of
a general disarmament among the na
tions. It Is further declared that each of
the contracting parties express their will
ingness and intention of making similar
treaties with other nations, including not
only those that are strong and able to de
fend themselves, and who have large mili
tary establishments, but also with the
smaller families of nations with whom
differences, similar to those covered by
this treaty, might arise.
Mr. Toller, of Colorado, was one of the
first speakers. He advocated the post
ponement of the consideration 'f the
treaty, until after the 4th of March, wlr n
the senate would he in extra 9’saion with
amDle time to look into the Instrument.
The debate of the afternoon revolved
about a question of the interpretation of
the words used by the committee In its
new amendment, which provides that all
matters for arbitration shall first be
submitted to the senate for "approval.”
What was meant by the word approval
was the question generally asked, and to
which no satisfactory answer appears to
have been given. There was also a wide
difference of opinion among senators as to
whether under this amendment such ap
proval would have to be given by a two
thirds vote or by a majority only Some
contended that Inasmuch as the whole
congress had to appropriate the money
to meet the expenses of the arbitration,
the congress might have a vote In the
settlement of the matters to be submit
ted.
There was no regular debate on this
subject. It consisted entirely of ques
tions and cross questions, with abso
lutely no conclusion being reached. Sen
ators Gray, Turple, Lodge, Sherman.
Daniel, Davis, Lindsay. Caffery and Hoar
participated. Mr. Caffery. who today for
the first time, discussed the treaty, camo
out strongly for It and advocated its
speedy ratification.
Mr. Mil’s finally got the floor and madet
the only set speech of the day. Mr. Mills
^Continued on Second t’age.)BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1897.
NUMBER £5
MORGAN GAINS A VICTORY
Blocks Senate Legislation at
Sherman’s Expense
AN EXECUTIVE SESSION
Obtained by the Astute Politician After a
Heated Tilt.
DEMANDS IMMEDIATE ABROGATION
Of the Clnyton-Bulwer Treaty, Designating
It a Club in the Hands of Great
Britain—House Again Has
Night Session.
Washington, Feb. 15.—The morning
husiness of the senate was soon broken
in upon today by the vice-president lay
ing before that body the joint resolution
introduced last week by Mr. Morgan to
declare the Clayton-Bulwer treaty abro
gated. When Mr. Sherman called atten
tion to the fact that a joint resolution
was. not properly a subject for considera
tion in the morning hour the vice-presi
dent promptly sustained the point of or
der, intimating at the same time that
he would recognize Mr. Morgan to move
that the joint resolution be taken up. In
stead of making that motion, however,
Mr. Morgan appealed from the decision
of the vice-president and was about to
make his speech in support of the joint
resolution when he was again brought up
suddenly by another point of order on
the part of Mr. Sherman that the appeal
was not debatable. Mr. Morgan insisted
that it was, and made the cutting re
mark that the senator from Ohio had
been so long in the senate that he had
forgotten the rules. Again the vice-pres
ident sustained Mr. Sherman’s point,
causing Mr. Morgan to intimate that he
was being “victimized'' by the chair and
by the senator from Ohio. The allega
tion was promptly, and not without a
show of annoyance, repelled by the vice
president. Senators Faulkner (dem. W.
Va.); Quay (rep. Penn.); Chandler (rep.
N. H.), made suggestions intended to
clear obstructions out of Mr. Morgan’s
path; and finally the latter made the
formal motion that the joint, resolution
be taken up for consideration and that
motion was carried by a majority of one,
32 to 31. But Jpst as Mr. Morgan was
about to enjoy his triumph, and to deliver
his speech for the abrogation of the
treaty he was once more blocked by the
objection (made by Hoar (rep. Mass.)
that the subject was one for considera
tion in executive session.
Mr. Morgan suggested that what Mr.
Hoar meant, was not an executive ses
sion but a secret legislative session. Tak
ing the same view of it the vice-presi
dent ordered the galleries to be cleared
and the doors locked. This occurred at
12:40, and at 2 o’clock three bells were
rung, indicating that the executive ses
sion proper began then. It lasted until
near 4 o’clock, when the doors were re
opened and the bankruptcy bill was
taken up as the unfinished business.
No progress was made with it beyond
having the senate substitute read in full.
After that the conference report on the
legislative bill was presented and agreed
to. And twenty-four private pension
bills, with a lot of other miscellaneous
bills were passed, and at 5:15 p. m. the
senate adjourned.
The detailed vote on Morgan’s motion
to take up hts joint resolution is as fol
lows: _
Yeas--Allen, Bacon, Bate. Berry,
Blackburn Blanchard, Brown, Call, Cam
eron, Chilton, Galltnger, Gibson, Gor
man, Hansbrough, Mills, Morgan. Mur
phy, Pasco. Peffer. Pettigrew, Pritchard,
Pugh, Quay, Roach Smith. Stewart, Till
man, Turpie, Vest Voorhees, Walthall,
Whitt—32.
Mays—Baker, Burrows, Caffery, Can
non, Carter, Chandler, Cullom, Davis,
Gray, Hawley, Hill. Hoar Irby. Lindsay,
Lodge, McMlllln Mantle, Martin, Mitch
ell, of Wisconsin; Nelson, Palmer, Per
kins. Platt, Proctor, Sewell, Sherman,
Rhoup, Thurston, Vilas, Wetmore, Wil
son—31.
Among the bills passed was senate
hill appropriating $10,000 for the Investi
gation of the obstruction of the naviga
ble waters of Florida, Louisiana and
South Atlantic gulf states by the aquatic
plant known as the water hyacinth.
Washington, Feb. 15.—A resolution was
adopted providing for evening sessions
tonight and tomorrow for the considera
tion of private pension bills. Amend
ments of the senate to the diplomatic and
consular appropriation bill were con
curred in. The bill now goes to the
president.
House substitute for the senate bill
appropriating $50,000 for closing the crav
asse in the Mississippi river at Pass A1
Outre, was passed.
This being suspension day, Mr. Can
non, (rep. of Illinois), moved that tile
rules be suspended and the sundry civil
bill be passed.
An effort to dispense with the formal
reading of the bill being unsuccessful the
clerk proceeded with the reading.
When the reading of the bill had been
completed Mr. Sayers, (dem. of Texas),
criticised tru- passage of the bill under
the suspension, containing as It did, large
appropriations for fivers and harbors,
of which sufficient information had not
been furnished and upon which a sepa
rate vote should be made.
Mr. Pearson, (rep. of North Carolina),
made a sharp attack on the river and
harbor items.
He criticised particularly the fact that
every member of the committee had in
the. bill an appropriation of about $400,000
for some Improvement In his state and
Mr. Sherman, of New York, had taken
care of his district by an item of $39S,
258 for Dunkirk harbor, New York.
(V. A. Stone (rep. Pa.) defended the
bill. It had been under consideration in
committee since the beginning of the
session, and he cited precedents where
appropriation bills had been passed un
der suspension of the rules, and taunted
the democrats with having passed the
Wilson tariff bill, not even under sus
pension of the rules, but under a special
order.
The sundry civil bill was then passed.
Its opponents not being numerous enough
to even secure a vote by yeas and nays.
Senate amendments to the agricultural
appropriation bill were non-concmred In,
and sent ty conference.
Resolutions reported from elections
committee No. 2 declaring Charles J.
Boatner. the present Incumbent, elected,
and Alexis Benoit, contestant, not elected,
to the present congress from the Fifth
district of Louisiana, wore agreed to.
Under suspension of the rules, the fol
lowing were passed:
Senate bill, giving the supreme court Tof
the District of Columbia tb,e power to ap
point a district attorney for the District
of Columbia when a vacancy occurs—the.
appointment to last only until the presi
dent shall appoint and the senate confirm.
To supply the national guards or the
various states and territories with mod
ern Sprl afield rifles of 45-cailbre In ex
change for their present rifles.
Authorizing certain homesteaders in
Florida to sell the timber on their lands
felled by the storm of September last.
Senate resolution authorizing the sec
retary of the navy to furnish a naval or
other ship to transport to'India certain
supplies donated by western states for
the relief of the starving poor of that
country.
Relating to lighthouses, etc., In Florida
—completing the removal of Cape San
Bias light station to Blacks Island and
building a iightkeeper’s dwelling at Eg
mont key; reconstructing the front bea
con of Apalachicola bay range light sta
tion; establishing a light station at St.
Joseph point; establishing danger lights
to mark the channel over the bar en
trance to Choctawhatehee bay; repairing
wharf and buildings at Key West.
The bill providing for the adjustment
of claims of the United States against
the state of Tennessee, and the claims
of Tennessee against the United States
was defeated—yeas 55, nays 41—two
thirds being necessary to pass the bill.
At 5 o’clock a recess was taken until
8 o’clock—the evening session to be de
voted to private pension hills.
NIGHT SESSION.
Washington, Feb. 15.—One hour and
forty minutes, were wasted at tonight’s
session of the house before a quorum
was secured. The house was in a face
tious mood and amused itself in Its own
fashion during the long wait. The roll
call disclosed the presence of 173 mem
bers.
While the house awaited the arrival of
the six absentees, whose presence was
necessary the members crowded into
the area before the presiding officer’s
desk and begged that certain of their
colleagues should be excused, principally
upon the ground of Illness. A score of
excises were accepted when Mr. Poole, of
New\5fork, asked a similar privilege for
his Cv'Jeague, Mr. Mahoney. Defeated.
Evei .more decisive was the vote
against \xouslng Messrs. Terry, of Ar
kansas, arid Allen, of Mississippi. When
Mr. Mahaney came In a little later he re
ceived a round of applause. Similar
demonstrations were made in favor of
other late arrivals, until a quorum was
established by the presence of Mr. Hart,
of Pennsylvania, when the house settled
down to business. The net result of the
session was that ten bills were laid aside
with a favorable recommendation, and
a,t half past 11 o’clock the house ad
journed.
WITH THE FLEET.
Target Practice the 'Main Feature of the
Day's Programme.
Charleston, S 0.. Feb. 15.--The feature
of the day in the blockading of the port
of Charleston by Admiral Bunee’s fleet
consisted of some heavy gun practice by
the entire squadron. Shortly after 1
o’clock the ships moved into their block
ading positions and, putting out floating
targets at distances ranging from 400 to
1,000 yards, began to get their main bat
teries into action. The line of action was
the same as that which the fleet has ob
served during other blockade work, the
Massachusetts to the north and then the
Maine, Amphltrite, New York. Indiana
and Columbia running atvay to the south
ward at a distance of 3,000 yards apart.
The targets used were the ordinary float
ing triangles of seven feet to the side.
The practice began at 1:15 in the after
noon, and continued until 3:30 p. m., with
out interruption.
The main batteries of the ships are the
•Massachusetts, four 12-inch, eight 8-inch
and four 6-inch guns; thq Main, four 10
inch and six 6-inch guns; the Amphltrite,
four 10-Inch and two 4-inch rapid-fire
guns; the New York, six 8-inch and
twelve 4-inch rapid-fire guns: the Indi
ana, four 13-lnch, tight 8-inch and four
6-inch guns; and the Columbia, one 8
inch, two 6-inch and eight 1-inch rapid
fire guns.
The guns on the individual ships w’ere
in action one at a time and while the
ships were anchored. Once the Massa
chusetts fired her 13-inch guns at inter
vals of two minutes, and at one time the
battleship Maine got under way and fired
several shots at her target. The guns
were loaded with service charges and
shells wfre the main projectiles used.
The booming of the great guns rever
berated for miles nlong the coast, and In
the citv the concussion couldi not be
heard, but felt distinctly. The shooting
was nearly all line shooting, and while
the range of the targets were not gotten
with accuracy, the practice was appar
ently successful. Many of the projectiles
struck short of th? targets, and plunged
into the ocean, ricochetttng some times
for a mile before making the second
plunge.
The Vesuvius left the harbor this morn
ing at 10 o’clock ard rejoined the fleet.
Later in the day she sailed to port again
and remained for a few hours. The Mar
blehead sailed for Mayport, on the Flor
ida coast shortly before 4 o’clock this
afternoon. The Terror, Puritan and oth
er ships, possibly, are expected to join
the fleet tonight or tomorrow morning.
Thursday the Maine will go to Port Roy
al to be coaled.
GONE TO SMASH.
Machine Bolt Trust Plays Quits—Mem
bers of the Combine Caught Cutting
Prices, and the End Soon Came
Cleveland, O., Feb. 15.—The great ma
chine bolt trust has gone to the wall. It
.comprised all the leading machine holt
manufacturers In the country. The Cleve
land Arms were the Upson Nut com
pany, Chapin Bolt and Nut company,
Lake Erie Iron company and Lamson
and Sessions company. A S. Upson, of
the Upson Nut company, was president
of the trust. The cause of the downfall
was sharp competition, formed by the dis
trust and jealousy of some of its mem
bers. The combination was formed last
■Vp'tl for the purpose of governing the
price of machine bolts and regulating the
output. Within the past few months
some of the members of I he trust have
made repeated cuts under the trust price.
When this became known other members
of the trust became wratliy and accusa
tions of unfaithfulness were freely made.
This so angered those who had cut under
the combine price that they revolted.
With these members selling bolts at their
own figures away under the trust price,
the trust officials decided that it was fu
tile to trv to maintain the combination,
and so a few days ago thetrust gave up
the A gilt and disbanded
Treasurer f« " O. Barlington, of the
Chapin Nut and Bolt company, said to
day that the demand for machine bolts
did not equal a quarter of the supply;
that there was no demand at all since the
trust went up. as the open market which
now exists has made buyers timid, as the
prices are now so divergent that they are
confuting, and buyers are not in the
market because they are fearful that
they will not he able to buy at the lowest
figure.
•The machine bolt trade." continued
Mr. nBrllngton. "has practically gone to
smash. There are no signs of a reaction.
The business is paralysed. The general
discount now is 75 per cent., while for
merly- it was from 10 to 15 per cent, less."
It is not probable that any steps will
be taken to reorganise the trust.
PRESIDENT SHIRE RESIGNS
And Hon. Francis L. Pettus Will
Wield the Gavel.
A SURPRISE IN THE CAMP
Tax Commission Bill on the Calendar Through
a Mistake
AND IS SENT TO COMMITTEE
The Martin Code, After a Spirited right,
Accepted—Harkins Mining Bill Is
Now a Law—Anti-Cigarette
Bill in the Senate.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 15.—(Special.)—
The house thought It had passed the anti
cigarette bill this morning, but thanks
to Hen. Chas. E. Waller, of Hale, It will
not be a law, for the next two years at
least. Mr. Cameron got the bill up, as a
special order, just before adjournment
this morning. After a spirited fight the
bill was passed, ayes 62, noes 16. Under
the rule the house adjourned immediately
after t'he consideration of the bill was
disposed of. At the afternoon session,
however, Mr. Waller, who led the fight
against the bill, moved to reconsider the
vote by which the bill was passed, and
then moved to lay his motion on the ta
ble. Under the rules this postpones the
final action on the bill until tomorrow,
which will avoid its being read on three
seperate days and therefore Its passage.
The following other bills were passed
by the house:
8. 297.—To preserve order at the Pen
sacola district camp ground, in Escam
bia county, Ala.
S. 242—To amend an act entitled an act
to establish a new charter for the city
of Huntsville, approved Dec. 9, 1896.
S. 383—To fix the time of holding cir
cuit court in Cleburne county and to
dispense with a grand Jury in said court
unless such jury be ordered by the judge
thereof.
S. 391—To repeal an act entitled an act
to regulate the trial of misdemeanors
in St. Clair county, Alabama, approved
18th February, 1891.
S. 417—To amend an act approved Feb.
12, 1879, entitled an act to establish the
Warrior agricultural district, to pro
vide for the securing of the same, and
the management of its affairs.
S. 395—To authorize the court of coun
ty commissioners of Tuscaloosa county
to issue and sell bonds of said county
to an amount not exceeding $13,000 for
the purpose of paying the interest and
principal of the indebtedness incurred
in building the present bridge across the
Warrior river at Tuscaloosa, Ala.
S. 458—To fix the amount of city licenses
on wholesale or retail dealers in spiritu
ous, vinous or malt liquors, within the
corporate limits of Jasper, Ala.
S. 468 (With Amendment)—To further/
define general assignments and to prs-’
vent the fraudulent disposition of prop
erty.
S. 447 (With Amendment)—To provide
for the removal of suits of unlawful de
tainer and forcible entry and detainer
from the courts of justice of the peace
and other officers to the circuit court
and to prescribe rules of practice and
evidence in s.uch cases in the circuit
court.
S. 66—To make valid and chargeable
against the fine and forfeiture fund bf Es
cambia county, Alabama, certain witness
scrip or witness certificates issued by the
foreman of the grand juries of Escam
bia county, Alabama, and have said strip
or witness certificates paid by the treas
urer of said county in the order of their
registration.
H. 533—To establish a separate school
district to be known as the Pinson school
district in Jefferson county.
S. 113—To regulate the holding of the
circuit court of Marengo county and to
provide for the practice and proceedings
therein.
H. 44C (With Amendment.)—To incor
porate the East Gadsden Normal and In
dustrial Institute.
H. 487—To prevent the sale, giving
away, or otherwise disposing of cigar
ettes, cigarette tobacco, or cigarette pa
pers or any substitute for any of them
In the state of Alabama.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Most or the afternoon session in the
house was consumed In the consideration
and passage of the bill which accepted
and enacted the new code, which has
been prepared during the past two years
by Hon, W. I/.'"Martin, the ex-attorney
general of Alabama.
Contrary to expectation, a very spir
ited debate preceded Its passage. Hon.
Charles E. Waller opened the debate by
offering an amendment to the bill, which
provided that the new code should not
go into effect until thirty days after the
adjournment of the next legislature, two
years hence. He then, spoke vigorously
to his amendment. He charged that the
code commissioner had resolved himself
into a one-man legislature, and had re
modeled the laws to suit his own ideas—
that he had invaded every realm of Ala
bama law and had changed practically
all of It more or less. He said that the
Alabama legislature had ten years ago
made the mistake of accepting a code
without knowing anything about it, and
that before this or any other code was
adopted it should lie for two years in
the office of the secretary cf state, sub
ject to the inspection of the attorneys.
He Insisted that the attorneys were tread
ing on dangerous ground, as some radical
changes were sought to be enacted in the
new code, and that every man who voted
for It would have to explain his vote to
his people later on.
Mr. Pitts ably defended the bill, in
sisting that an intelligent joint commit
tee of eight assemblymen had spent the
recess carefully and laboriously examin
ing and considering the new code. He,
as a member of the committee, was thor
oughly Informed on it, he said, and he
conscientiously believed it was the most
perfect code in the United States today.
He Insisted that the state owed a debt of
gratitude to Mr. Martin for his industri
ous, painstaking and ahle services in
compiling for, them the best code they
had ever known. He concluded his re
marks by moving to lay the amendment
on the table, which was done Vy a vote
of 56 to 21, and the bill afterward passed
by about the same vote. Mf. Waller had
his remarks on the bill taken down by a
stenographer, and asked that his protest
be permitted to be spread on the records,
which request was acceded toe
The hill which provided for the print
ing and distribution of the new code was
then passed.
Mr. Waller made his mo'tlon at the
afternoon session to reconsider the vote ,
bj which the antl-cigare*4e bill was
passed this morning, and then mover) to
lay the motion otl the table, J oping there
by to prevent the bill from reaching the
senate today. Had he been able to ac
complish this, its enactment would have
been defeated, as three days for the con
sideration by the house could not have
been secured. Dr. Cameron, the author,
made the point of order, however, that
under the rules the bill must go forthwith
to the senate without engrossment, and
It therefore went there and was read a
first time this afternoon. There Is a posl
btlity that the bill may become a law
after all.
The confederate pension law of 1891,
the provisions of which will expire next
month, was re-enacted for six years by
fhe house this afternoon, the senate hav
ing already passed It.
THE SENATE.
president Sayre callc-d a meeting or me
democratic senatois today and announced
that having been appointed Judge of the
city court of Montgomery, and deserving
to be qualified as such, he would this
afternoon tender his resignation as presi
dent of the senate. The resignation was
regretfully accepted by the senatorial
caucus and Hon. Francis L. Pettus was
unanimously nominated to succeed Sen
ator Sayre. Mr. Sayre’s resignation in
the senate this afternoon was, therefore,
followed by the election of Mr. Pettus,
who presided over the senate two years
ago as Us distinguished president, and
on whose shoulders the trust will rest
easily and, gracefully.
This afternoon Senator Sayre tendered
his resignation as president of the sen
ate to the governor and to that honorable
body, and Hon. Francis D. Pettus, of
.Haifa.--, was elected to the presidency
without opposition. Mr. Sayre Intends
to quaHfy as Judge of the city court of
Montgomery, to which place he was re
cently appointed by the governor and
elected by the senate, and It would he
Illegal for him to don the Judicial ermine
while president of the senate.
Mr. Pettus preceded Mr. Sayre as presi
deht of the senate, and the honors, there
fore, rest easily upon him.
The senate today passed the Harkins
mining bill by a vote of 20 to 1, and It now
only awaits the governor's signature to
bepome a law. It is conceded to be an
excellent and equltablermeasure, and it
is believed will prove a blessing to the
miners and minp operators in Jefferson
and the adjoining counties.
The senate's calendar for today showed
that Senator Fifty’s bill to repeal the tax
commission law was reported favorably
from thfe Judiciary committee.
This proved a surprise to all the mem
bers of that committee, and Its chairman,
Mr. Pettus, had a statement signed by
all his colleagues, to the effect that the
bill had never been even considered at
any meeting of the committee. 1
The bill was then recommitted to the
finance committee by a vote of 20 to 7,
and It is now finally done for.
It appears t,hat the bill found its way
on the calendar through a clerical mis
take.
The following other bills were passed
by the seriate today:
H. 166, by Greene—To jjrovldft for the
payment Into the fine and forfeiture
fund of Jefferson county of all solicitors’
fees now forming a part of the general
fund of said county, after payment of arr
appropriation of $3,000 per annum to be
paid to assist the solicitor of Jefferson
eftunty In suppressing crime as provided
In an act approved Feb. 18, 1801.
H. 767—To provide for the appointment
of an official stenographer for the cir
cuit and chancery courts in the county
of Mobile, and the city court of the
city of Mobile, and to define his duties
and Tegulate his compensation, approv
ed "Feb. 12, 1879, and the act amending
said act, approved Jan. 25, 1895.
H. 1001—To regulate the assessment,
disposition and collection of the fine and
forfeiture fund in the county or Blount.
H. 877—For the rellfef of W. H. Ed
wards and Tom Horn, of Choctaw.
II. 949—To fix and regulate the fees of
the register In chancery of Lamar and
Fayette counties.
H. 1183—To amend subdivision 19 of
section 137 of the code.
H. 623—To prohibit within five miles
of Brookwood, In Tuscaloosa county, the
soliciting or taking of orders to be filled
elsewhere of alcoholic, vinous, or malt
liquors, or other intoxicating drinks or
beverages, or fruits preserved in alco
holic liquors.
H. 1097—To amend section 3286 of the
code of 1876 as re-enacted in an act en
titled an act to re-enact sections 3286,
3288. of the code of 1876, so far as It re
lates to Wilcox, Macon, Marengo and
Washington counties, approved Dec. 10,
so far as It relates to Macon county.
NIGHT SESSION.
The senate tonight passed the bouse
bill providing for the appointment of
nine oil inspectors, one from each con
gressional district, whose duty It shall
be to test all illuminating oil brought
Into his district. The inspector shall re
ceive one-half cent a gallon.
Mr. Burns got his bill requiring the
state tax commissioner to make bond in
the sum of $10,000. and the county com
missioners to make $1,000 bonds each
through the house tonight.
The house passed Mr. Dreyspring’s bill
tonight, requiring that before a citizen
of Alabama can. vote he must present his
poll tax certificate. The bill will un
doubtedly pass the senate.
THE STEEL RAIL SITUATION.
New York, Feb. 15.—Local representa
tives of the lark? steel mills were inter
ested this morning in a big contract for
steel rails for an eastern road which
has been holding off since the pool dis
solved. One of the largest companies
offered at noon to close for $20 25 a ton,
including freight charges to this city.
Tlhe offer will probably be taken, as it
comes from a strong concern, fully able
to meet competition. It was said later
that ordinary business could be placed
today at $20.75 at this city, and that
rates would be stiffened from now on.
The heavy business of last week has
reduced the supply at many points and
a normal market Is expected soon. The
strongest companies, it is believed, will
insist on better rates this week, and it
is not likely that an informal agreement
of a general nature may be entered into
between companies in the same territory.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Feb. 15.—Very warm,
rainy weather and a heavy track, with
three favorites winning were the features
today. Attendance 2,500.
F1r*i Race—Six furlongs. Hardenburg,
(Hirsch), 7 to 2, won; Loyal Prince, sec
ond; Chicot, third. Time, 1'24%.
Second Race—Half mile. Sue Sue. 101
(Dorsey), 7 to 5, won; Our Lizzie, sec
ond: Octave, third. Time, :55%.
Third Race—Mile and twenty yards.
Dave Pulsifer, 113 (Garner), 7 tif{0, won;
Jamboree, second; Henry Owsley, third.
Time, 2:00Va
Fourth. Race—Seven furlongs. Van
Brunt, 108 (Garner), 1 to 2, won; Domin
go, second; Gaston, third. Time, 1:40%.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs. Frank Daly,
110 (A. Barrett). 9 to 2, won; Boarder,
second; Martin, third. Time, 1.2614
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Prince
Proverb, 91 (T. Burns), ? to 1, won; Rob
ert Bonner, second; Pop Dixon, third.
Time, 1:25%.
IS THE RUMOR CORRECT?
Paris. Feb. 15.—The Eclair asserts that
a force of Greek tropps has been landed
Ip No confirmation of the state
ment Is ohtaiiM.t ic. :*Id it is not generally
i Credited.
GREECE DEFIES THE POWERS
Declares Her Intention to Occupy
Crete.
IT NOW LOOIfj? LIKE WAR
v
France in Command
the Allied Fleet in
Cret- £ Waters
AND GREEK VES$/ $ ARE BEING WATCHED
jSr
In Order to PrL *>frt the Landing of Troops
and Munition — Prince George
Notified of the Decision
of the Powers.
Berlin, Feb. 15.—The many rumors
concerning1 what actually occurred in
Athens as a result of the two confer
ences of the diplomatic representatives
of the powers yesterday and subsequent
representation of the conclusions ar
rived at by the conference to Premier
Delyannis, M. Boure, the French minis
ter, being the spokesman of the diplo
mats, have been set at rest by a semi
official statement which was given out
here today. According to this statement
M. Delyannis, upon being formally noti
fied of the action of the foreign minis
ters, which notice was put in the form of
a protest against the action which Greece
has taken in Crete, asked that time be
allowed him in which to consider and
formulate a reply. This request having
been granted. M. Delyannis today com
municated to the diplomats through M.
Boure an answer to their protest. The
Greek premier, after a brief review of
the situation, declares without qualifica
tion that it Is the purpose of Greece to
occupy Crete.
In view of this defiant attitude of the
Hellenic kingdom, the German govern
ment will consider that it is no longer
consonant with dignity to proceed fur
ther In'the paths of diplomacy at Athens,
and after having communicated this con
clusion to the governments of the other
powers, will instruct the commander of
the German warship Kaiser in Augusta
to proceed to Canea and join the asso
ciated fleets off the Cretan coast in pre
venting any hostile action on the part of
Greece and co-operate with them in re
storing order in the island. According to
the semi-official statement this decision
on the part of Germany is final.
ON TO CANEA
Tg the War Cry of Greece and the Powers
Are Also En Route.
Athens, Feb. 15—Advices received
here from the island of Crete announce
that the corps of occupation consisting
of Infantry, artillery and engineers, and
numbering 1,500 men, which embarked at
Piraeus yesterday, have landed at Pla
tanlans, fourteen kilometers west of
Canea. The warships of the powers, the
advices also state, had previously land
ed strong detachments at Retlmo,
Heraklion and Canea.
FRANCE JOINS HANDS
With Germany and the Other Powers—
The Secret Leaked Out.
Paris, Feb. 15.—In the chamber of dep
uties today M. Hanotaux, minister of
foreign affairs, replying to an inquiry by
M. Jaurez regarding the situation in
Crete, said that the status of affaire in
that island was such as to render public
legislation impossible. M. Jaurez ex
pressed dissatisfaction with the reply of
the foreign minister to his request for
information, and demanded that the Cre
tan affair be discussed a't once by the
chamber. Thereupon M. Meltne, the pre
mier declared that such action was im
possible, as the discussion demanded
would necessitate the divulging of se
crets which were not Fiance’s alone, and
demanded that the consideration of the
matter be adjourned, and this couise waa
adopted by a vote of 382 to 70.
THE POWERS’ DEMAND.
Greece Asks for Time, Which Is Granted
—Volunteers Respond Promptly.
Athens, Feb. 15.—Representatives ot the
powers accredited to Greece held two
meetings yesterday, their conferences
taking place at the French legation. At
the second meeting, which was held in
the evening, it was agreed that the pow
ers through their ministers at Athens,
should protest against Greek intervention
in Crete, and as a result of this decision,
the French minister, M. Boure, watted
upon M. DeLyannls, the Greek premier,
and intimated to him that the powers
had determined to take decisive steps,
even resorting to arms, to prevent Greece
from taking further hostile action in
Crete, and at the same time promised that
the powers would take into considera
tion the claims of Greece in Crete, and
the question of union of Crete with
Greece
Premier DeLyannis asked to be allowed
time in which to reply to the representa
tion made by M. Boure, which was
^Military reserve forces are responding
with great unanimity to the governments
summons, and are flocking to the military
depots in large numbeis. The military
bureaus report that the list of reserves
will be made up within two days.
GREEK FLOTII-.LA WATCHED.
By Warships of the Powers—Christians
Repulse the Moslems.
Crete, Feb. 15.—The Greek flotilla Is
lying at anchor outside the Cordon, which
has been formed by the warships of the
powers, and will not be permitted to
come any nearer. The foreign war ships
are practically blockading Retimo and
Canea and the report that the Greek
flotilla landed large quantities of arms,
ammunition, etc.. Intended for the use
of insurgents during the night of Feb.
12, or at any subsequent time. Is abso
lutely untrue. The number of Insurgents
gathered around Canea Is estimated at
12,000, and they have only one field gun.
The Turks, under cover of four of the
guns of the fortress, made a sortie Satur
day upon the Halepa quarter of the
town, where a hot fight ensued, resulting
In the Turks being driven back by the
Christians and compelled to retire to
the fortress. After night fall a force of
7,000 Moslem regulars and volunteers
made another sortie, which was stoutly
opposed by the Christians. The fighting
which ensued was of a most desperate
character and the losses on both sides
was heavy. The Moslems finally return
ed to the fortress. It Is thought that de
spite the vigilance of the warships of the
powers the Greek transport ships may
succeed in landing an expedition In the
bay of Klssamo.
THE FOREIGN SECRETARY
In the House of Parliament Says Eng
land Has Not Shown Her Hand.
London, Feb. 15.—George N. Curzon,
parliamentary secretary of foreign af
fairs, announced In the house of com
mons today In reply to questions regard
ing the exact situation In Crete, that
the powers were taking every step possi
ble for them to take advantage of, to
the end of checking the disorders In that
island. All foreign consuls In Crete, he
added, were under Instructions to co
operate in the direction of restoring or
der.
Curzon, answering further questions,
said that the government had absolutely
no Information that the Musselmans In
Crete were exposed to massacre at the
hands of Christians. Replying to re
quests for information as to the course
to be taken by British naval vessels in
Cretan waters, Cuizon said that the Brit
ish naval offlders had been instructed to
take no isolated action In Crete under
any circumstances. Curzon declined to
make any statement as to the nature or
purport of correspondence which had
passed between the powers concerning
the Cretan situation and the position of
the powers in. regard thereto.
GREECE’S ACTION UNTIMELY.
London, Feb. 15.—The matter of the dis
order In Crete and the independent ac
tion taken by Greece In sending a torpedo
flotilla and transport ships with troops
to that island came up in the house of
lords today, when Lord Salisbury de
clared that reforms for the Island of
Crete had been arranged and were al
ready being put Into effect when Greece
intervened. The powers, the premier
Faid, were unanimous in regarding the ac
tion of Greece ill-advised, to say the least,
and had lost no time in expressing this
opinion in language of the most earnest
and unmistakable character to the Greek
government. The government of Great
Britain, Lord Salisbury declared, re
mained in complete accord with the other
powers, and there was no ground for
thinking that they' would depart from
the policy which they had hitherto pur
sued.
PRINCE GEORGE INSTRUCTED.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 15.—The command
era of the British and other foreign war
ships stationed here have informed
Prince George, commanding the Greek
torpedo flotillta, that they have received
orders to prevent occupation of the island
of Crete by Greece, and if necessary to
use force to carry out these instructions.
GREECE’S ANSWER.
Berlin, Feb. 15.—M. DeLyannls today
communicated to the diplomatic repre
sentatives of the powers the answer to
their protest. The Greek premier de
clares without qualification that it is the
purpose of Greece to occupy Crete. In
view of this defiant attitude of the Hel
lenic kingdom, the German government
will instruct the commander of the Ger
man warship Kalserin Augusta to pro
ceed to Canea to Join the associated
fleets of the Cretan coast in preventing
hostile action on the part of Greece and
co-operate with them in restoring order
in the island.
A SEMI-PANIC ON ’CHANGE.
London, Feb. 15.—The stock exchange
was disorganized throughout the day and
closed heavy, though prices were general
ly above the lowest of the day. Consols
showed a decline on the day of %. and
Turkish securities fell 114 to 2 per cent.;
Italian %, and Ottoman bank shares %.
Advices from Paris, Berlin and Vienna
show that a semi-panic prevailed on the
bourses in those cities.
AGREEMENT OF THE POWERS.
Vienna. Feb. 15.—The Fromdenblatt, a
semi-official organ, says that the powers
have agreed upon the occupation of tho
Cretan towns of Canea. Retimo and Can
dia by their warships and other forces,
and have also agreed to insist upon the
withdrawal of the Greek torpedo fleet
from Cretan waters. The government of
Greece, the paper adds, has been notified
of the decision of the powers.
FRANCE IN THE LEAD.
Vienna, Feb. 15.—It Is stated here upon
semi-official authority that the admiral
In command of the French squadron, as
senior flag officer in Cretan waters, will
take command of the united fleets of the
powers, and every movement of the war
ships will be made under his direction.
It is further stated that all arrangements
for definite action on the part of the com
bined fleets of the powers have been com
pleted.
INSANITY THE PLEA
Set Up by Counsel for Edward C. Flana
gan, Now On Trial In DeKalb County,
Ga., for Murder.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 15.—Edward C. Flan
agan was put on trial In DeKalb county
today for the murder of 'Mrs. George W.
Allen, Sr., and MIbs Ruth Slack. The
double murder occurred on the night of
December 31, 1896. Flanagan boarded In
the home of George W. Allen, near De
catur, Ga. Flanagan professed to- be In
love with Allen’s 12-year-old daughter,
Della. For some reason he attempted to
kill the entire Allen family. While the
members were at supper he thrust an arm
through a portiere and began firing on
the groupe with a. pistol. George W. Al
len and his father were both seriously
wounded. Allen's mother and Hiss Slack,
a relative of the family, were mortally
wounded. Mrs. George W. Allen seized
the murderer and prevented him from
shooting her. Her husband regained con
sciousness and aided her in holding the
murderer until neighbors cam-.
The defense is that Flanagan is a sex
ual pervert, and was insane. He is rep
resented by W. C. Glenn and Dan Roun
tree. The state is represented by Solic
tor Wright and W. Virazewell. Judge
S. Candler Is presiding. Col. Glenn tiled tv
plea declaring that Flanagan is Insane
now. He demanded an examination into
the man’s sanity.
This was ordered, ,and the prisoner's
two older brothers were called. They
were W. W. and J. J. Flanagan, of Ten
nessee. These men testified that their
mother was insane at tlm<s. and did not
know members o| her family. A sister
died while insane, and they gave it aa
their opinion that the prisoner is not al
ways sane. J. J. Flanagan was not very
strong in his testimony. He stared that
he had not seen much of his brother for
years. W. W. IGanagan swore that his
brother visited him about ten years ago.
On leaving Edward remarked that they
might never meet again, and drawing a
pistol, pointed it at the head of the wit
ness, saying: “I would rather kill you
titan go away and never see you again.’
Witness thought this whs insane con
duct. The experts will be put on the
stand tomorrow. If the Jure, s lind that
the prisoner Is Bane now. his counsel will
demand that he be tried as to hts sanity
when thv crime was committed.
The case will probably be a long one.BIRMINGHAM _STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1897.
NUMBER 26
RECLINES UPON IRE TABLE
Coustitutional Convention Bill
Meets a Waterloo.
EIGHTEEN TO ELEVEN
The Vote Announced Upon Motion to Lay on
the T able.
THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE WAS IGNORED
Two Amendments, One to Allow the Capitol
to Remain Unmolested and the
Other to Allow
Representation From All Political Factions
Adopted, But to No Avail—Lively
Tilt In the House—Leg
islative Notes and
Other News.
Montgomery, Feh. 16.—(Special.)—Six
teen misguided senators, more than half
of them being populists, killed the con
stitutional convention bill today. This
does not mean that the movement Is dead
by any means, for It is already apparent
that It will be a very live Issue between
this and the next election, but It will
serve to set back the hands on the dial
of progress for two years at least. The
hill providing for the submitting of the
question of holding a convention to the
votes of the people of the state after hav
ing passed the house, came up in the
senate at the noon hour today. The lob
bies and the galleries were crowded and
the greatest interest in the result was
manifest.
Arter tne reading ot tne mu senator
Boykin, an enemy to the measure, offer
ed an amendment providing that all of
the delegates to the proposed conven
tion should, before they should be allow
ed to qualify, agree that they would vote
against any proposition looking to the
removal of the capitol from Montgomery.
Dr. Cunningham assured the senate
that Birmingham was not aspiring to
secure the capitol; that the people of his
county favored the convention chiefly
for the reason that Its probable action
would enable Birmingham to increase its
tax rate and by this means have income
sufficient to meet its honest obligations.
He moved, however, to lay Senator Boy
kin’s amendment on the table, which
motion was lost, and the amendment
was then adopted by a vote of 17 to 12.
Mr. Hundley then offered an amend
ment requiring that in the election pro
vided for in the bill the officers and
clerks at the polls should be distributed
evenly among the several political par
ties in the state. After considerable
wrangling and discussion this amend
ment also prevailed, after which Sena
tor Brewer moved to lay the bill on the
table, which was done by a vote of 18
to 11.
On the motion to table the senators
voted as follows: Yeas—Messrs. Brown,
Buchanan, Case, Day, Deans, of Shelby;
Deens, of Covington; Grant, Hall, Hol
lis, Mathews, Moody, Nolen, Robinson,
Sayre, Smith, Sowell, Thomason.
Nays—Messrs. President, Abercrombie,
Bathune, Cunningham. Hawkins, Hogue,
Hundley, Dee, McElderry, Sowell and
IValker.
The senate then proceeded to the con
sideration of the general revenue bill,
which was the unfinished business at the
adjournment of the afternoon session.
Many amendments of more or less conse
quence have been made to the bill in the
senate, but none that appear to imperil
Us final passage.
THE HOUSE.
When the 'house assembled this morn
ing, Mr. Davis, of Marlon, called up a
bill which provides for the appointment
of an independent jury commission for
Franklin county.
He said that Franklin county was in
the hands of the populists and that the
people were not fairly represented. He
said the present commissioners had
boasted that a democrat had not served
or. any jury in that county in a year.
He appealed to the democrats of the
house to stand by the democrats of
Franklin.
Mr. Gast opposed the bill in a vehe
ment speech, stating it was an attempt
to disfranchise the people of Franklin
county, and the charges made were false.
There had not been a grand jury In
Franklin county for the last ten years
of which the foreman was not a demo
crat.
• I have a petition from eighty-four
democrats In the town of Russellville, In
Franklin county,” continued Mr. Gast,
asking this legislature not to pass the bill.
I represent the democrats as well as the
populists.
Mr. Hibbard followed and raked Mr.
.Gast over tihe coals for making the state
ment that he represented the democrats
in any way, and said: "I wish the mem-i
bers could have heard him misrepresent
them last summer. He denounced all
democrats as thieves and liars on every
stump in Franklin county.
Mr. Hibbard then called the previous
question, whereupon Mr. Gast jumped to
his feet and declared the bill to be a
fraud and forgery and a substitute for
the senate bill and had not had but one
reading before the house and could not
therefore, come up for passage.
Mr. Hibbard insisted on his motion for
the previous question and the bill passed,
ayes 42, noes 30.
Mr. Longshore gave notice that he
would on tomorrow move to reconsider
the vote by which the bill had passed.
During the roll call on this bill Mr
Hearne arose and asked leave to explain
his vote. There was loud objections
from all parts of the house, but upon
motion of Col. John Burns, of Dallas,
that the house allow the gentleman from
Choctaw to be heard, lief was granted.
Mr. Hearne began In a high key to de
nounce the house for perpetrating “gag”
rule and the democratic party and the
world In general. Thp speaker pounded
with his gavel, the gallery cheered while
the members laughed. But Hearne
stood at his post.
The speaker commanded him to take
his seat, but he still continued to jestlcu
late and it was at least live minutes be
fore the speaker could bring order out
of chaos.
Mr Brown moved that Hearne be
brought before the bar of the house and
publicly repremanded for his conduct in
refusing to obey orders from the chair.
He was forthwith brought before the
house and repremanded by Speaker
Clements.
The following other bills were passed'
by the house this morning:
S. 374—To further regulate the holding
of circuit courts In Clay county, Ala
bama,
S. 250—To repeal an act entitled an act
to prohibit tlie sale, giving away or other
wise disposing of spirituous, vinous, malt
liquors, at or within certain localities
within the state, approved February 28th,
1881. so far as the same relates to the
corporate limits of the city of Fruithurst,
In Cleburne county, on the Southern rail
way.
S. 144—To secure more effectively com
petent and well qualified jurors in the
county of Franklin.
S. 114—To amend and revise an act, en
titled an act to incorporate the town of
Eunola, in Geneva county, Alabama.
S. 229—To regulate the registration of
electors in the state of Alabama.
S. 294—To confirm the incorporation of
the Birmingham Medical coliege, a cor
poration organized under the general
laws of this state, to declare Its powers
and to confer upon it additional rights,
privileges and powers^
S. 466—To establish a separate school
district to be known as the Roanoke col
lege district in Randolph county.
8. 439—To confer upon persons, firms
and private and municipal corporations,
owning, constructing and operating water
works in this state for the purpose of
supplying water to any city, town, mu
nicipality or community or the Inhabit
ants thereof, or for any other public use,
the right, power and authority to acquire
and take real estate, water rights and
easements necessary, suttiabie and proper
for such purposes, and prescribing the
manner of proceeding in the exercise
thereof. Provided, the provisions of this
act shall apply to Montgomery'county
alone.
The following bills were passed at the
afternoon session of the house:
S. 462—To substitute to the people of the
state at the general election to be held
on the flist Monday in August, 1898, for
representatives. for their consideration
end amendment to section 7, article 11, of
the constitution, providing a special tax
of one-half of 1 percentum for the city of
Birmingham, to be applied to the pay
ment of interest on the bonds of said
city, and for a sinking fund to pay off
said bonds at the maturity thereof.
HOUSE AFTERNOON SESSION.
At the afternoon session of the house
the following senate bills were passed:
S. 13—To amend section 2933 of the
code.
S. 239—To amend the charter of Gl
rarde.
». 24<—to prevent the jumping- otr anu
on trains while in motion anti to provide
for the punishment thereof.
S. 325—To prohibit the adulteration of
candies and confectioneries and the sale
or other disposition thereof and the keep
ing of adulterated candles and confec
tioneries for sale or other disposition.
S. 285—To incorporate the Alabama
River Barge Line and Railroad company.
8. 337—To fix the time and regulate the
holding of the circuit court of Madison
county. Alabama.
S. 437—To incorporate the Alabama
Steel and Ship Building company.
S. 426—To incorporate the Commercial
club, of Selma, Ala.
8. 422 -To provide for the collection of
local assessments for public improve
ments of t'he mayor and Aldermen of
Birmingham.
S. 474—To amend section 2.167 (2745) of
the code of Alabama.
S. 455 -To constitute the town of Al
bertville a separate school district and to
provide for the management of the pub
lic schools of said district.
S. 464—To prohibit the selling of whis
ky In heat 17 in Coffee county.
S. 405 -To establish a separate school
district in Geneva county, Ala.
S. 441—To punish any person who pol
lutes or contaminates water supplied to
cities and towns of the state.
8. 471—To establish a board of revenue
in lieu of the court of county commis
sioners for Cullman county.
Mr. Kyle arose this afternoon and
stated that inasmuch as the senate had
refused to repeal the 8ayre election law
he thought it important that the house
pass the senate amendments to the exist
ing law which action was taken. The
text of the amendments Is as follows:
"That no registered elector of this state
shall again be registered or be required to
register so long as or while he may re
side or continue to reside within the elec
tion precinct or ward in which he is reg
istered for the last general election of
state officers. Provided that this act
shall not apply to cities and towns having
more than 5,000 population.
See. 2. Be it /urther enacted that the
registrar of each election precinct or
ward shall be present at the polling place
in such precinct or ward on the day of
any general or special election and shall
then regulate all such qualified electors
entitled to vote in such precinct or ward
at such election as have not been pre
viously registered in said precinct or
ward.”
The bill passed without a dissenting
vote.
The house, according to expectation,
killed the senate’s proposed new code
of school laws tonight.
The assembly at midnight tonight re
cessed until Thursday to enable (he clerks
to catch up with their work. Pinal ad
journment will be taken on Thursday
ASSEMBLY NOTES.
The defeat of the constitutional con
vention bill Is salitto he a matter of ex
treme regret to Gov. Johnston. It has
been regarded as one of his pet measures
as It is understood Its passing would
have enabled him to put the public debt
of the state In very much better condi
tion. His regret, however, cannot ex
ceed that of Mr. 3. D. Weakley, H. S.
McKee, Col. E. W. Booker, Mr. J. Asa
Rountree, Mr. Sig. Steiner, Hon. F. V.
Evans. John B. Knox, Gen. C. M. Shel
ley, Walter Moore and the others who
have worked so Industriously for the suc
cess of the measure.
In connection .with the passing by the
house this afternoon of the senate bill
which sought to create a board of rev
enue for Cullman county, another breezy
debate occurred between Messrs. Davi3
and Cofer, who have crossed swords be
fore on the floor. The bill had been in
troduced by Senator Brown, of Cullman,
who earnestly advocated its passage
which Mr. Cofer, of Cullman, bitterly op
posed. Mr. Cofer has been freely crit
icised on the floor arid elsewhere for his
affiliations with the populists. This af
ternoon he reminded the house that he
was the democratic representative on the
floor from Cullman and that his wishes
In the matter should be considered as he
knew better than anybody else did what
his people wanted.
Mr. Davis denied that Mr. Cofer was
(he representative of the democrats of
Cullman. He insisted that Senator Brown
wag the only representative they had in
the assembly and that Cofer represented
In reality the populists. He charged
among other things that the fact that a
prospective popullte candidate for con
gress was here fighting the measure was
abundant evidenee that the democrats
did not favor It.
Mr. Davis Insisted that the populist
commissioners were profligate in their ex
penditure of the people's money, and were
not administering the affairs of their
trust as it should be administered. He
moved the previous question on the pass
age of the bill.
Mr. Cofer ruse to a question of personal
privilege, and declared that if the gentle
man from Marlon inteuded to say that
he, Cofer, was a prospective populist can
didate for congress, he stated what was ,
not true.
Mr. Davis quickly rose and replied: "I
did not refer to the gentleman from Cull
tcoutmued on Second Page.)
THE SINGLE GOLD STANDARD
Roundly Denounced by Chandler,
of New Hampshire.
RETURN TO BIMETALLISM
Is Absolutely Necessary ■for-the People and the
Republican Party.
HIS COMPLIMENTS TO SHERMAN
Private Pensions Disposed of in the House
—Cadets and Middies in the Hands
oi the Secretaries of the
Army and Navy.
Washington, Feb. 16.—In the senate to
day \Mr. Chandler (rep. N. H.) spoke for
three hours in support of his resolution
declaring It to be the sense of the senate
that the United States should not per
manently acquiesce in the single gold
standard, and he succeeded in gaining
and keeping the attention of senators
from the opening to the close of the
speech He attributed the fall of values
lit this and other countries for the last
twenty years to the progressive steps In
the direction of the demonetization of sll*
ver, and estimated the depreciation of
property in the United States since the
census of 1890, when it was given at
$15,000,000,000, at 35 per cent. He asked
whether such continuous shrinkage of
property and increasing burden of debt
could be endured without widespread
bankruptcy. If It had not been for the
fortunate balance of trade In favor of the
United States in 1S96, there would have
been, he asserted, a cataclysm In this
country which would have prostrated all
interests.
To tne system oi oimeuuiraui noui
which we departed," he said, "we must
return, and I trust that we are already
on the road.” He quoted Senator Sher
man’s speech on sliver In 1876, in wliich it
was said that nothing but the act of God
would prevent the use of both gold and
silver among the nations of mankind;
and he facetiously anticipated the aid
which Mr. Sherman would give to the
cause of bimetallism as the leader of the
new administration. He declared his be
lief that the new administration would,
by wise designs and virtuous deeds, pro
long indefinitely the ascendancy of the
republican party; but said that if it
should content itself with seizing and
enjoying the spoils of office, treating bi
metallism as a “juggling humbug," the
tide of political battle would be once
more turned against the republicans, and
they would soon change places with their
now sore, bleeding tend prostrate foes.
“Unsettled questions," he closed by say
ing, “pay no heed to the repose of na
tions. Be wise today; ’tls madness to de
fer.”
Mr. Sherman gave notice that he would
move to go into executive session tomor
row on the arbitration treaty, and that
he hoped then to get final action on it.
The bankruptcy bill was taken up. and
Mr. Hoar (rep. Mass), chairman of the
judiciary committee, pleaded for it in a
half hour's speech. No action was taken,
and the senate, at 5:20 p. m. adjourned.
IN THE HOUSE.
ah’. Coffin (rep. Md.), after an unim
portant question about the rules in the
house had been disposed of, moved to
pass over the president's veto the bill
to pension at $30 a. month the widow of
Peter H. Allahach, a veteran of the
Maxican war, who, in the latter yeurs
of his life, was chief of the capital po
lice.
Mr. Doud (rep. Cal.), in antagonizing
the proposed passage of the bill over the
veto, declared his belief that it was fu
tile to attempt td stop the house “in its
mad career."
He asserted that the services of the
deceased soldier was neither conspicuous
nor gallant.
The vote resulted: Yeas. 115: nays, ;9.
Two-thirds not voting in the affirmative,
the hill failed to pass over the veto.
Various house pension bills with sen
ate amendments were laid before the
house and the senate amendments agreed
to.
The house then took up and passed the
bill to regulate and make uniform the
jurisdiction of United States circuit
courts In oases brought for the infringe
ment of letters patent. It gives jurisdic
tion to the courts in the circuits where
the defendant lives- or where he may
have committed acts of Infringement, or
has established business.
No other committee demanding con
sideration of hills, a motion to adjourn
was made and defeated. Tt was then de
termined to vacate the order made yes
terday for a session tonight, and take up
private pension bills Thirty-five hills
were considered, about twenty-five of
them being passed. Among the bene
ficiaries were the widow of Brevet Major
General S. A. Duncan at $50 a month; the
widow of Col. Renea Drussy, $50 a
month; Crotlus N. Odell, of Colorado,
$72 a month; the widow of Brlg.-Gen.
Charles A. Heckman, $50 a month-and the
widow of Brlg.-Gen. William Vandiver,
$50 a month.
The house at 4:45 p. m. adjourned until
tomorrow.
THE TWO SECRETARIES
To Deride If the Cadets and Middles
Shall Go to the Inaugural Ion.
Washington, Feb. 16.—The resolution,
to permit the United States cadets at the
West Point and Annapolis academies to
participate in the ceremonies attending
the Inauguration of President McKinley,
was called up in the house military com
mltteee this morning. It was antagoniz
ed. The principal speech in opposition,
was made by Mr. Washington, of Tennes
see, who doubted the propriety of order
ing the cadets to Washington at this
time. He showed that the boys had not
appeared in apy inaugural parade since
the induction into office of Gen. Grant.
He thought It Inadvisable to take the
cadets from their studies and he spoke
particularly of the danger to their health
which might result, if the weather on the
4th of March next should be cold and raw',
as had frequently been the1 case hereto
fore.
Mr. Bishop, of ‘Michigan, moved when
the brief discussion ended, that further
consideration of the resolution be indefi
nitely postpqned, Six members supported
the resolution; live opposed it. and the
chairman, Mr. Hull, who voted In the
negative, succeeded in tieing the vote and
the motion was lost. . A subsequent mo
tion to refer the resolution^© the secre
taries of war and navy was agreed to
without division. It Is expected that the
report of both secretaries WflU be In the
hands of 1 he .©featrman to-be laid before
the members at next. Friday’s meeting.
Arthur Duestrow Pays the Pen
alty of H!s Crime,
ASSERTED HIS INNOCENCE
And Claimed to Be General Bradburgh of
the Army.
FOR THREE YEARS HE FEIGNED INSANITY
But Broke Down on the Last Day nnd Show
ed an Appreciation of Hia Hopeless
and Awful Predicament—A
Double Hanging
Union, Bio., Feb. 16.—On n scaffold
erected in the Franklin county jail yard,
in t(iis villag-e, under a clear and sunny
sky, surrounded by about 100 persons, the
majority being physicians, newspaper
men or deputy sheriffs, Arthur Deustrow,
of St. Louis, was legally executed today
for the murder of his wife and little son,
In that city, three years ago. The con
demned man, who has simulated insanity
since the day of the crime, kept his role
un.tll late last evening, when by his ques
tions and answers It was evident that he
keenly realized that the end was near
and that his own efforts and those of hla
attorneys, aided by an abundance of
wealth, were without avail In the battle
for life. Before he lay down to sleep last
night Duestrow asked one of the guards
what hour was fixed for the execution,
but the latter expressed Ignorance, where
upon Duestrow smiled significantly and
turned away. Later In the evening Sher
iff Puchta asked Duestrow If he wished
to see a minister or priest. The murderer
turned away with the sneering reply: ‘‘I
have no use for them.”
He then my aown on nis cot ami was
soon sound asleep. He slept almost with
out Interruption until nearly 5 o'clock
this morning. He did not arise, however,
until about V o'clock, but tossed restlessly
from side to side, as he consumed cigar
ettes one after another. He arose shortly
after 7 o’clock, and then, for the first
time in three years, broke down, and his
usual alr of haughtiness gave way to one
of despair. He begged the guards to
saVe him from his fate, and requested
thpt messages be sent to1 Gov. Stevens
Interceding In his behalf.
Jo nearly every visitor Duestrow ap
pealed for assistance, and asked that the
following telegram be sent to ex-Gov.
Johnson, his counsel, In St. Louis: "I am
in a predicament; Intercede with Gov.
Stephens for me Immediately. I now
need your advice. I was Insane, but it
did me no good. I have nothing left but
hope for forgiveness.”
Phis was signed “Gftppral Braden
burgh,” a name and character assumed
by Duestrow during the past few months.
The murderer partook of a scanty
breakfast, and when trwas finished threw
himself on his cot, and gave way to a
burst of tears. He sobbed convulsively
and cried out frequently: "Oh, God, this Is
terrible.” .
He appealed to the deputy sheriffs to
procure him a bottle of brandy, but this
request was not granted. It would ha\e
been the first drink since the day of the
tragedy had it been given him.
About 10 o’clock, Duestrow having be
come more composed, repeated his re
quest for brandy and it was given him.
Shortly before 1 o’clock Sheriff Puchta
notified Duestrow that his last hour
had arrived, and in a few minutes the
guards said that all was in readiness for
the execution. The sheriff gave the or
der to proceed and the march to the scaf
fold was begun, the sheriff leading the
way, followed by Duestrow, with a dep
uty sheriff on either side and a large
crowd of newspaper men and doctors.
Duestrow was apparently unconcerned
and when he had mounted the scaffold he
showed no nervousness. After the rope
had been placed about his legs the sheriff
asked him if he had anything to say. He
replied: "Nothing, but that a big mistake
Js being made.”
Then as the rope was being adjusted
about his neck he asked: “May I say a
few words?”
i ne BileIiii- Rave ode-chi ---
spoke In almost, a whisper as follows:
-'1 wish to say that a big mistake Is being
made here. I am Gen. Bradenburg, of
the United States army, I am not the
man whom you accuse. I am not a
murderer of a woman and a child. I
now stand before you, sir, bound and
tied, a criminal, hut I am innocent of
any crime. I go at peace with my Lord.
I want you to say that I thank my at
torney, ex-Gov. Johnson, of St. Louis,
for what he has done for me."
The condemned man hesitated, as If
about to talk more, but Sheriff Puchta
raised his hand; the black cap was plac-d
over Duestrow’s head and the cord
drawn tightly. Duestrow shouted to one
of the deputies, "Good-bye, Simon," and
the trap was sprung. The black form
fell through the hole and twisted about
two or three times. His neck was not
broken, and In eight minutes after 1
o’clock he was pronounced dead.
The body was turned over to an un
dertaker representing Miss Hulda Dues
trow St. Louis, sister of the dead man,
and will be taken to that city where the
remains will be interred alongside of
the murderer's father in Bellefontaine
cemetery. The undertaker stated that
he had positive instructions not to em
balm the body and this is taken as evi
dence that a post morten examination
will be made to determine the condition
of Duestrow's brain.
Duestrow was in receipt of an income
of $10,000 a year for life, settled upon him
by his father. He was studying medi
cine in St. Louis, but had practically
given himself up to drink and the bawdy
houses. On the day of the murder he
had made an engagement with his wife
to take her sleigh riding. When he went
to keep his appointment he was under
the Influence of liquor and quarrelsome,
ard abused the servant, who admitted j
him to 'his house. His wife, endeavor
ing to draw his attention from the serv
ant when he turned upon her. shot her
four times and then held up tlielr baby
against the wall and put a bullet through
its head. A fortune has been spent In
endeavoring to clear Duestrow on the
ground of insanity. There have been
five continuances, one mls-trial, one ap
peal and one change of venue ill Die
case. The case attracted widesi
tentton and has established man
dents by court rulings upon tty
pleas in defense.
A DOUBLE HANGING.
Ofle Victim a Pale-faced, 19-Year-Old
Lad—The Other a Negro.
St. Louis, Feb. —.Two men. met
death on the gallows In the jail yard
at Clayton, a suburb of this city, shortly
after 7 o’clock this morning. The first
to pay the dpath penalty was Peter
Schmidt, a pale-faced 19-year-old lad,
find the other was Samuel Foster, a big
burly negro, aged 30 years,
Schmidt mounted the scaffold steps
with a firm step and maintained a stub
born attitude throughout the prelimi
naries to the execution. The drop fell
at 7:05 o'clock and in twelve minutes he
was pronounced dead. The body was
cut down and the scaffold was again
prepared for Foster.
At 7:30 o'clock the latter, who had oc
cupied the early morning hours In al
ternately singing hymns and praying
for mercy, was led out Into the Jail yard.
He trembled violently and had to be sup.
ported up the steps. The trap was sprung
at about 7:40, and the execution was suc
cessful.
The pair, in company with John
Schmidt, a cousin of Peter, waylaid a
young artist named Atwater, who was
on his way to visit his sweetheart. At
water resisted, and was shot dead with
in a short distance of his sweetheart’s
door. John Schmidt will be hanged on
March 18 for his share'ln the crime.
—
UGLY WEATHER
Does Not Deter Corbett—Will Not Give
Public Exhibitions.
Carson, Nev., Feb. 16— James J. Cor
bett gathered his first impression of Ne
vada this morning through the rain
specked windows of a coach on the local
train between Reno and Carson. They
were not flattering for outdoor work.
Corbett has cancelled his exhibition
dates at Reno, Carson and Virginia, in
the face of strong protests from leading
citizens of these towns. Although he
was assured by District Attorney Mc
Guire that no attempt would he made to
collect the regulation license fee, he in
sisted on taking no chances.
Meanwhile Corbett’s quarters at Shaw
Springs are being hurried to completion,
but it is hardly probable they will be
fit for occupancy in less than two days.
Martin Julian arrived on the afternoon
train from Leadvllle, where he left Fitz
simmons. "There is no rush about bring
ing Fitzsimmons here in such weather
as this," he said. "We have not yet se
lected training quarters and from what
I hear we are likely to have some trouble
in finding a suitable location.
“I think that by Saturday we will have*
everytihing arranged satisfactorily.’’
HANDWRITING ON THE WALL
Solemn Warning In Burning Words
From Evangelist Martin.
The galleries were brought Into requi
sition again last night to accommodate
the large audience at the South Side
Baptist church.
Kvangellst Martin preached on “The
Handwriting on the Wall.” He gave
some terrific blows to the evils of mod
ern society. He said when he saw the
young man falling in with evil associates
he read the “handwriting on the wall.”
When he saw the young lady indulging in
the round dance, he read the handwrit
ing on the wall. When he saw the youth
entering the saloon, the gambling room,
or living beyond his income he read the
handwriting on the wall. Mr, Martin
related instances that had come under
his own personal experience as a man
of the world. Men knew he understood
■what he was talking about. Sometimes
a ripple of spontaneous laughter would
sweep over the large audience and then
a deep stillness would,succeed.
The sermon was one of absorbing inter
est and full of timely warning and help
for the young.
Before the sermon eight or ten were
baptised, the delicate burial of each in
the watery grave, being very solemn and
Impressive.
Tonight the evangillst announced he
would preach on “Weighed and Found
Wanting."
The singing of the splendid male quar
tette was very fine, as well as that of
the large chorus choir, which Is constant
ly improving and becoming quite a feat
ure of the meeting.
There w'ere quite a number of profes
sions of faith and a profound interest.
The ordinance of baptism will be admin
istered again tonight before the sermon.
The meeting last night was the best of
the series, and they seem Increasing in
power.
ANT1-SCAI..PING BILL.
With Several Amendments Reported to
the Senate—Tickets Redeemable.
Washington, Feb. 16.—The anti-scalp
ing bill was reported to the senate this
morning with several material amend
ments, none of which, however, have
been antagonized by the railroad com
panies. The bill, as amended, makes it
unlawful for any one to sell railroad
tickets except persons authorized by such
companies by proper certificates so to
do. A single exception permits the pur
chaser of a ticket in good taith, for per
sonal use, In the prosecution of a journey,
to sell the ticket he lias purchased.
The original bill provides that rail
road companies shall redeem upon pre
sentation at the general office of the
road Issuing a ticket, any part of such
ticket as may be unused by the pur
chaser at a rate equal to the difference
between the rate paid for the whole tick
et and the cost of a ticket of the same
class between the point for which it was
actually used. An amendment made to
this requires the railroad companies to
redeem the whole ticket in like manner
in the event that the purchaser should
be unable to use it. Another provision
for the protection of brokers who may
have a stock of tickets on hand requires
all roads to redeem every legal ticket
outstanding within thirty days after the
passage of the act.
The forging of railroad tickets Is made
a felony, punishable by a fine of not more
than $3,000 for each offense and imprison
ment for not more than two years.
ONE 'SHINER CAPTURED.
Deputy Collectors J. F. Creen and J. E.
Dogwood in the Internal revenue depart
ment, reported yesterday morning that
they had raided and destroyed six illicit
distilleries during the past few days. Al
though six stills were destroyed, along
with whatever "mountain dew" was
found, only one 'shiner was captured.
AY'. P. Chambers was arrested near Trick
ridge, in I.imesttine county, and his $75
outfit destroyed. His outfit was. A
thirty' gallon pot still, cap. worm, twenty
gallons of singlings, font beer stands and
160 gallons of beer. The daily output was
fifteen gallons.
.tacksonvh.de BANK CDOSES.
Jacksonville, Fla.. Feb. 16.---The Mer
chants’ National bank, of this city, closed
itsdoors today by order of the directors.
The bank had a capital stock of $100,
000, and was the successor of the oldest
banking house in the slate. That the
institution was not in a sound condition
was fcnown in banking circles for sev
eral months, ^nd the failuro was not a
surprise. The heavy withdrawal of de
posits within the past month and the in
ability to realize on securities are stated
by the president. John D JMarvln, to be
iho cause of the failure.
The Cotton Mill Will Surely Be
Built.
ENTHl^ASM PREVAILED
At Last ■ "-gilt's Meeting in the Commercial
§ Club Parlors.
f -
A VlfV LNCOURAGING RtPORT
&
Froneihe Subscription Committee Hoad
8120,000 of the Stock Subscribed, With
Assurance of Early Completion of
the Work of the Committee.
An enthusiastic meeting of public-spir
ited men was held In the rooms of the
Commercial club last night to hear the re
port of the soliciting committee, and
great enthusiasm was shown.
President Joseph occupied the chair,
and Mr. R. D. Johnston acted as secre
tary. Tlie meeting was called to order,
and the proposition of the northern and
eastern capitalists fully explained, as has
been published from time to time. In
brief, it is as follows: Mr. J. N. Trainer
and associates, representing the foreign
capitalists, will put in $250,000, provided
the city will duplicate the amount. It Is
intended to build a $500,000 cotton mill of
50,000 spindles, on eighteen acres of land
situated betwe n Birmingham and Avon
dale, donated by the Elyton and Avon
dale Land companies. The water power
would be obtained from bold and easily
accessible springs in the neighborhood of
the plant. The building will require 3,
000,000 bricks and 100,000.000 feet of lum
ber. and will keep 200 to 300 men em
ployed for a year to complete It.
During the proceedings a letter from
Dr. Whelan was read indorsing the proj
ect and subscribing $10,000 towards tho
required amount. Mr. K. B. Comer also
heartily indorsed it, after thorough in
vestigation of its merits and possibilities,
and subscribed $20,000 Mr, N K Barker
stated that he and his associates had de
cided to take $20,000 of the stock of tho
mill.
Mr. Barker stated tnat ne naa mor
oughly Investigated the project from ev
ery standpoint, and could only find for
It Instantaneous success. One provision
that was somewhat misunderstood was
explained by him. It was that If the
citizens of Birmingham found themselves
unable to raise the necessary $250,000,
but succeeded in scouting $150,000, that,
the entire plant would be bonded for
$100,000. These bonds would cover
$250,000 of the foreign capitalists just the
same as it effected old local subscrip
tions The privilege of issuing the bonds
was suggested by the committee and
not by Mr. Trainor, and his associates.
There" would be no string attached to thd
ownership and disposal of the bonds, and
the management of the mill and hand
ling of the funds would be given into thd
hands of the Birmingham people.
The committee reported that there had
be^n subscribed $120,000 of the needed
amount with excellent pr spects, with
concerted action, of securing the addi
tional $30,000.
At this point the discussion became
general, and was participated in by the
following gentlemen, representing every
branch of occupation and industry in
the city: Major Milner. Messrs. Rufus
N. Rhodes, E. H. Cabaniss. J. L. Chali
foux, Robert Jemison. ,1. A. Van House,
W. H. Kettig. Maj. J. IV. Johnston. E>r.
Ooulbourn, B. F. Ezekiel, Dr. Murray, and
others.
All of the gentlemen were unanimous
In the opinion of the reusability possibili
ty and practicability of the enterprise
and spoke encouragingly In regard to it.
The concensus of opinion seemed to be
that the northern capitalists were at least
recognizing that the south was the place
for the location of mills for the making
of the rough cotton fibre, while the east
ern manufacturers were ennfining them
selves to the finer fabrics only The old
prejudices wrere fast disappearing and
the western and northwestern farmer,
recognizing his Inability to successfully
compete with his southern brother, was
emigrating to this section The interests
of foreign people in this part of the coun
try demand recognition, and it was only
fair and equitable to ask them to sub
scribe nnd invest their money in projects
wherein we were locally directly concern
ed. It is manifestly wrong to ask them
to put money in enterprises In our
midst when we refuse to do s > ourselves.
The great success of the Tuscaloosa
cotton mill was cited as an instance in
Illustrating that it would be n dividend
paying enterprise. Sixty days after the
erection of the Tuscaloosa plant Its stock
sold at 95 cents, and later on had paid
dividends amounting to as high as 40 per
cent.
Some people seemed to hesitate to sub
scribe. but the $J00 subscription Is an
heartily welcomed as the $1,000 >ne. All
of these amounts are payable monthly In
installments of 10 per cent, of tb- amount
subscribed. Every citizen, whether cap
italist or wage earner, sh mid subscribe
at least $100 towards the erection of the
mill.
The young men are requested to lend
their assistance towards Its e mipietion,
for without their vigor ami the hopes of
youth success shall be unknown. The
many women and children in Birming
ham would afford ample labor for the
running of the plant, once It be started.
The climate, location and natural advant
ages of this city make It an ideal loca
tion for the industry.
If the cotton’ mill Calls of erection It bi^t
acknowledges to the outside world that
Birmingham no longer leads the way for
her sister cities.In all other lines we
point the way. end In this instance we
should maintain our position, raise the
necessary $30,000 and place another In
dustry In operation.
The reusability rf a cotton mill has long
since bern demonstrated, and with one in
successful operation, others will* natur
ally follow. Not only will th" 1 reetlon of
the mill itself be of material benefit to
us, but we need not leave . ur gates even
for the machinery used In it Everything
Is made right at our doors.
With the management In the hands of
the local people. Its success must bo
doubly assured, as the project once un
dertaken by them must not. cannot fail.
The committee are still engaged In col
lecting funds, and any subscription will
be gladly received by them. If tjte cot
ton mill is erected, everybody must put
his shoulder to the wheel and give con
certed action in moving it.
JOHN W. MURDOCK, D. D., LI.. D.
Clifton Springs. N. Y„ Feb. 10.-The
Rev. John N. Murdock, D. 1).. LI,. D.,
• honorary secretary of the American Bap
tist Missionary Union, died here this
morning.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1897.
NUMBER 27
IN HANDS OF THE POWERS
Is Turkey Willing to Place the
Cretan Question.
GREECE FORMALLY WARNED
That She Must Not Make an Attack Upon
Canea.
BUT THE PLUCKY LITTLE POWER
Proceed3 to Fortity the Boundary With Ar
tillery—Berlin Congress It Is Thought
Will Report Favorably to Orceoe.
The Sultan Is Not Angry.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 17.—Vice-Admiral
Canevaro, of the Italian navy, command
ing the united foreign naval forces here,
has formally notified the commander of
the Greek squadron, Prince George of
Greece, of the occupation of the town by
marines of the foreign warships with the
consent of the Turkish government. To
this notice the Italian admiral added a
warning that the Greeks must not make
an attack upon the town, which is under
protection of the flags of the great
powers.
As the result of a conference of the
commanders of the foreign squadrons
held on board the Italian flagship today,
Admiral Canevaro sent a note to the
Greek consul informing him that any at
tack on the part of Greece upon Canea,
Retlmo, Sitla or Heraklion, would be re
pulsed by the warships of the powers.
The consul was also warned that all fur
ther hostile action on the part of Chris
tian insurgents and Greek troops In other
parts of the Island, must cease at once.
DETACHMENTS OF MARINES
From Warships of the Powers Landed—
Greek Artillery Moves Forward
Athens, Feb. 17.—It is believed here
that detachments of marines were landed
from the foreign warships at Merakliori,
Retimo and Sitia yesterday, it being the
purpose of Vice-Admiral Canevaro,- of the
Italian navy, who is in command of the
united naval forces of the powers, to
prevent attacks by the Greek forces upon
those places. The provinces named are
reported to h'ave become less disturbed
and affairs are returning more nearly to
their normal condition. Col. Vassos,
commanding the Greek corps of occupa
tion. it is said, made no opposition to the
landing of the marines.
Prince Nioolas, of Greece, in command
of a battery-of field artillery, started to
day for the Thessalian frontier. Large
crowds of people gathered to witness the
departure of the troops and give the sol
diers and their commanders an ovation
as they started on their Journey.
SITUATION AT CANEA.
Macedonians and Cretans to Concentrate
Efforts Favorable to Annexation.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 17.—Since the occu
pation of the town by foreign marines
order has been restored in the suburbs
and everything around Canea is now
quiet. Foreign war ships are stationed
here, at Betimo and Sitia. .
Anti-Turkish disturbances have oc
curred in Thessaly. Shots have been ex
changed at Art, on the Turkish frontier,
where a Turkish guard across the bor
der was struck by a bullet.
Col. Vassos. commanding the Greek
troops in Crete, has received instructions
to avoid any encounter with foreign
forces on the island, but to execute the
orders 'of the king, which are that he
shall occupy the island and restore order
therein.
The Macedonian and Cretan commit
tees have arrived at an agreement to
concentrate their efforts in Crete to the
end of securing the union of the island
with Greece.
FAVORABLE TO GREECE.
Is Believed Will Be the Besult of the
Berlin Conference.
Athens, Feb. 17.—The belief prevails
here that a diplomatic conference will
shortly be held in Berlin- for the purpose
of settling the question of union of
Crete with Greece. It is expected- that
the matter will be decided in favor of
Greece and that. Prince George will be
chosen prince of the Island.
THE TURKISH MINISTERS
Decide to Leave Pacification of Crete
With the Powers.
Constantinople, Feb. 17—At a special
meeting of the council of ministers held
at Yiliz palace Monday, it was decided to
leave pacification of the island of Crete
In the hands of the powers. The council
also adopted military measures to be
taken on the Greek frontier, appointing
Edhcm Pasha, who directed the Turkish
military operations at Zeitoun in 1896, to
command the trrops at Einssona. and it
was decided to call out the reliefs of the
Third army corps, stationed at Salonika.
These measures are purely defensive and
were taken with a view to meeting an
emergency. The sultan has informed the
foreign diplomats that he is greatly
pleased at the landing of foreign marines
and blue Jackets at Canea.
TURKISH GOVERNMENT
Declares She Has No 111 Will Toward
Greece Because of Crete.
Constantinople, Feb. 17.—The Turkish
government persists in declaring that It
is not to be Inferred that there is or will
be any rupture of relations between Tur
key and Greece from the fact that Tur
key is determined to leave a settlement
of the troubles in. Crete to the European
powers.
TROOPS TO BE MOBILIZED.
Constantinople, Feb. 17.—The govern
ment has Issued orders for the mobiliza
tion of the Turkish fleet with the least
possible delay.
KISSED THE HOLY MOUTH.
Sultan of Turkey Performs a Customary
Religious Function.
Constantinople. Feb. 17.—The sultan
this forenoon paid his annual visit to
Constantinople proper for the purpose of
performing the ceremony of kissing the
prophet’s mantle. Hla majesty, accom
panied by a strong guard of police and
military, proceeded from the Yldix palace
to the mosque in which the mantle is kept
by the water route and returned after
completion of the ceremony by the same
route. His progress to and from the
mosque was witnessed by immense
crowds of people.
TURKISH MARINE MINISTRY.
A9k for a Heavy Loan—Troops Ordered
to the Front.
Constantinople, Feb. 17.—The ministry
of marine has asked 'his government for
a credit of £500,000 Turkish to defray the
expenses Incurred in preparing and mo
bilizing the Turkish fleet. Two squad
rons are now being prepared. The first,
which will comprise four warships and
ten torpedo boats, will sail within five
days under command of Vice Admiral
Falk. The second will be commanded
by Vice Admiral Hassan, and will con
sist of five warsnips and ten torpedo
boats.
Fifty thousand naval reserves have
been summoned for service in addition to
the Redifs of the Third army corps, now
at Salonica and the Redifs of Trebizond
have also been ordered to Join their col
ors. making altogether 76,800 men who.
will be concentrated near the Greek fron
tier.
WANT A BLOODLESS WAR.
Canea, Feb. 17.—Vice Admiral Cane
varo, commanding the allied naval forces
•of the powers in Cretan waters, has writ
ten a note to the Greek consul at this
place, informing that official that it is the
purpose of the powers, by their occu
pancy of various cities of the island, to
promote a bloodless settlement of the
Cretan difficulty, and that therefore any
attack upon the towns occupied, whether
made by thg Turks or Christians, would
be repelled by the united forces of the
powers. He also urges the insurgents
and Greeks to abstain from military ac
tion in other parts of the island.
RUMOR CONFIRMED.
Athens, Feb. 17.—Later advices from
Crete confirm the rumors that detach
ments of marines have been landed from
the foreign warships at Heraklion, Re
timo and Sitla. The officer in command
of the French marines who compose the
force of occupation at Retimo has issued
a proclamation to the inhabitants at that
place.
MOB VIOLENCE
Plucky Sheriff and Deputies
Thwart the Plans
OF DETERMINED CITIZENS
Motion for a Mistrial by Plaintiff's Councel De
nied bv the Court.
LOOKS AS IF THE INSANITY PLEA
Will Be Sustained from Evidence Adduced
—Expert Physicians so ExpresaThera
selves on the Stand—Flan
agan Taken to Atlanta.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 17.—A mob made a
rush for Edward C. Flanagan at the
railroad station at Decatur tonight after
the trial. Sheriff Austin had started to
bring his prisoner into Atlanta, fearing to
keep him in the DeKalb county Jail. For
three days there has been talk of lynch
ing Flanagan, and this morning his coun
sel, W. C. Glenn, asked for a mistrial,
stating that It was Impossible to get a
fair trial on account of public sentiment.
Judge Candler refused the request and
stated that he and the sheriff would pro
tect the prisoner. The Judge did not
think there was a disposition to lynch
Flanagan. The people of DeKalb, how
ever, are Indignant at the prospect of
Flanagan escaping the gallows on t'he
plea of Insanity.
AH day there were mutterlngs in and
around the court and when the sheriff
left the building he was followed by fifty
men. He found as many more at the
depot. The sheriff was r.ot unprepared,
however, and when the crowd began to
move in on him he and his deputies sur
rounded the prisoner and with drawn
pistols threatened to shoot whoever at
tempted to lay hands on Flanagan. The
show of resistance cowed the mob and
the-sheriff stepped on a train in a few
minutes and brought his man to Atlanta
for the night.
NeaVly all the evidence today was de
voted to an explanation on certain
phases of Insanity.
Hr. Pinckney stated that he believed
from an examination of Flanagan that
he is Insane and not mentally fit to be
tried for murder. The physician declared
that In his opinion Flanagan could not
give his counsel any assistance in the
trial. Dr. Btzzell gave similar testi
mony. He, too, had examined the pris
oner and had tested him. He pronounced
Flanagan hopelessly insane. Flanagan
has a delusion, believing that he has
enemies who are after him and are try
ing to kill him for his money.
The case will be resumed tomorrow.
NASHVILLE’S SWELL WEDDING.
American Aristocracy and English No
bility—Some Notable People Present.
Nashville, Term., Feb. 17.—There has
been many notable weddings in Nashville,
but none have approached In import
ance that of Miss Myssle Brown, a mem
ber of one of the oldest and most aristo
cratic families in the exclusive section of
the south, and the Hon. Archibald J. Mar
jorie Banks, brother-in-law of the pre
mier of Canada, Earl Aberdeen. The
wedding ceremony was performed In the
First Presbyterian churdh, of this city,
and a more brilliant collection of old
families has net been seen here in a long
time. Of course the church was elabor
ately decorRted.
The groom Is a brother of Lady Aber
deen and brother to Lord Tweedmouth.
The party which accompanied the groom
was unquestionably the rmbst distin
guished party that has ever visited this
city. It consisted of Lord and Lady
Aberdeen, their daughter, Lady Mar
jorie Gordon, Capt. Wllherfore, of the
queen's body guard; Robert Monroe-Fer
guson, of the royal Scottish archers, and
Lieut. Col. Strathey» ot the Fifth royal
Scotts guards, of Canada. #
The groom Is a member of "the royal
Scottish archers, and all of the gentle
men named appeared In full regalia at
the wedding and reception at the resi
dence of Mrs. Leslie Warner, which fol
lowed. The dlntlnguished party will
leave In tlie morning for Canada. The
young couple will make their home in
England.
NEWSPAPER MEN IN SESSION.
New York, Feb. 17.—The first regular
session of the annual meeting of the
American Newspaper association was
held today at the headquarters of the as
sociation in- the Hoffman. One hundred
and fifty publishers, representing news
papers from all over the United States
wore present. Charles W. Knapp, of the
St. Louis Republic, presided.
ORDERS POURING IN.
St. Louis, Feb. 17.—Since the collapse
of the steel pool orders have been placed ]
in this city with the Carnegie agents and
the Illinois Steel company for 30,600 tone
of rails. The drop in price to $17 found
tnany roads anxious to buy, both for ex
tensions and renewals and orders have
plied up largely In excess of early produc
tion. The Missouri, Kansas and Texas
railway heads the list with an order for
10,000 tons placed yesterday with the.,
Carnegie company. The Missouri Pa
cific took 6,000 from the Illinois Steel com
pany and the 'Frisco also ordered 8,000.
President Connor, of the Dallas (Texas)
Terminal, yesterday took 3.000 tons and
F. H. Green, of the Texas Midland, is
negotiating for 20,000. One order was|
placed today by a road that is known to
be already abundantly supplied and an
evening paper hints that this purchase is
to forstall a return to high prices.
NO IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS.
Philadelphia, Feb. 17.—The trial of
Capt. John D. Hart, the steamship agent,
who is accused of setting on foot and de
vising the means last summer for a mili
tary expedition on the steamship Lau
rada to land arms and men to aid the
Cubans in their insurrection against
Spain, was resumed in Judge Butler’s
United States district court today. Sev
eral witnesses testified to having taken
out stores and supplies to the Laurada
as she lay in the river, but nothing of
particular importance In connecting Capt.
Hart with the expedition was developed.
GREECE WILL WIN.
London, Feb. 17.—The Daily News will
say tomorrow: It is reported in the lob
by among the unionist members of the
house of commons that it is not likely
that the powers will seriously attempt
to dislodge the Greeks from the island
of Crete, but that their presence will, af
ter a decent interval, be acquiesced in
with a view to the ultimate annexation
of the island to the Greek kingdom. It
is whispered tihat King George was made
aware beforehand that the action taken
by Greece would not be resisted desper
ately.
MAY IT PROVE TRUE.
Madrid, Feb. 17.—El Dia, in an article
on the political situation, asserts In most
positive terms that a ministerial crisis Is
impending, and that it is possible that
Senor Segasta will return to the premier
ship. The paper also says there is likeli
hood that Gen. Ramon Blanco, late gov
ernor-generaL of the Philippine Islands,
will replace Gen. Weyler as captain-gen
eral of Cuba.
NATIONAL EDITORS IN SESSION.
Galveston, Tex., Feb. 17.—The second
day's session of the National Editorial
association was called to order by Presi
dent Thomas at 10 a. m. President
Thomas delivered his annual address. In
teresting papers were read.
TO RUN UP TO THE NOTCH.
Providence, R. I„ Feb. IT.—The Pontiac
mills began to run on full time yester
day.
CONGRESS OF MOTHERS
Opened at the Arlington, Washington, D.
C„ Undep Favorable Circumstances
—President’s Welcome Address.
Washington, Feb. 17.—The session of
the National Congress of Mothers, which
has attracted such wide attention all
over the United States, was opened at the
Arlington hotel at 10 o’clock this morn
ing.
Rev. W. H. MU bum, of Washington,
the blind chaplain of the United States
senate, delivered the opening prater.
Mrs. Theodore Birney, president of the
congress, made the address of welcome.
Speaking of the objects of the congress,
she said lc was the culture and advance
ment of children and mothers. The child
question was the one meet worthy of
attention, ar.d as this was the woman's
era, when so much arose to dtsLract wo
men from the care of their children, this
congress had taken upon Itself to try to
point out the way In which children
should be brought up. The desire was
that the coming generation of mothers
should have a college education and a
general knowledge of the need of child
hood, in. order that they might be better
able to direct the footsteps of the young.
In closing, Mrs. Birney said: “This is no
sex movement, but one in which sons and
daughters, fathers and mothers should be
Interested alike.”
Mrs. Mary Lou Dickinson, of New York
City, responded.
She spoke of the good results of kinder
garten work. Mrs. Dickinson also refer
red to the great wrong often committed
by fathers in allowing the mother to as
sume all the responsibility of rearing the
children, when ft was equally as Impor
tant to teach a child the ways of the
world.
Arter Mrs. uieKinson s aaaress, tne
meeting adjourned until 2:30 this after
noon.
Many distinguished women occupied
seats upon the platform, among them be
ing Mrs. Adelale Stevenson, wife of the
vice-president; Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst,
Mrs. William L. Wilson, Mrs. Harriet A.
McLean, Mrs. James E. McGill, Mrs.
Mary A. Mumford, Miss Emma Morton,
Mrs. A. A. Birney and Mrs. H. W. Fuller.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The crowd of 1.800 received by Mrs.
Cleveland grew considerably before the
hour arrived for the afternoon session
and the large banquet hall of the Arling
ton was found to be much too small.
Arrangements were quickly made for
holding the second session in the First
Baptist church, corner of Sixteenth and
O streets.
This edifice also proved inadequate to
accommodate the increased number and
many were unable to gain admission.
The afternoon session began at 2:30
o’clock, the time being taken up exclu
sively with the delivery of addresses. The
first was by Frank Hamilton Cushing
of Washington, D. C., as to “Mother and
Child of the Primitive World.”
Mr. Cushing is a professor in the bu
reau of enthrvology of the Smithsonian
institute' and his address related to the
respect for motherhood among the Zunl
Indians, whom he described as probably
the best representatives now living of
the civilization that existed, some thous
and years ago. Other speakers were
Mrs. Lucy Bainbridge, of New York city;
Miss Amelia Hotter, of Chicago, and Mrs.
An overwhelming congragatlon listened
An overflowing congregation listened
to the proceedings of the evening session.
Mrs. Wilbur F. Crafts, superintendent
of the Sunday school department of the
world’s Women's Christian Temperance
Union, and president of the International
Primary Union of Sunday School Teach
ers, presented the subject of ‘‘Mothers
and Schodis." Rev. 'W. A. Bartlett, of
Lowell, Mass., spoke on “The Value of
Music In -the Development of Charac
ter.”
Tomorrow morning’* session will be
commenced by devotloml exercises, con
ducted by Mri^ Maud JBaliington Booth, ,
of New York *Ky. > * «
NEW IMMiGflATIQN LAW
Now Awaiting Presidential Assent
Very Rigid.
ILLITERATES NOT WANTED
Refugees from Cuba Not Included in the Ob.
jectionable Clauses.
NINETY-SIX TO TWENTY-EIGHT
Was the Vote on Limiting; Pensions to
Widows of Offloers of Lower Hank
More Pid to Be Doled Out
by the Executive.
Washington, Feb. 17.—After a four
hour's debate in the senate today the con
ference report on the bill to amend the
immigration laws was agreed to by a
vote of 34 to 31. As the report had al
ready been agreed to in the house the
bill, as modified In conference, now goes
to the preaident. It adds to the classes
of excluded alions, all persons over 16
years of age who cannot read the Eng
lish language or some other language—
except that admissible Immigrants may
bring with them or send for illiterate
parents or grand parents (over 60 years
of age), wives asd minor children. It also
prohibits from employment on public
works aliens who oame regularly or
habitually into the United States for the
purpose of engaging in any mechanical
trade or manual labor, and who have not
made declaration of intention to become
American citizens. The secretary of the
treasury, however, may permit the en
trance of aliens for the purpose of teach
ing new arts or industries. And the act
is. not to apply to persons coming here
from Cuba, during the continuance of the
present disorders there.
Four democratic senators (Chilton,
Faulkner, Hill and Martin) voted for the
report and four republicans (Hansbrough,
Hawley, Mantle and Shoup) against it.
After the immigration bill was dis
posed of the senate proceeded to the con
sideration of executive business and at 6
p. m. adjourned.
EXECUTIVE SESSION.
When Senator Se-wall, of New Jersey,
read the Record this morning and found
that the postmasters at Swedesboro,
Bridgeton, Bayonne, Atlantic City, Pater
son, Ocean City, Cramer Hill and Rock
fcway, in the state of New Jersey, had
been yesterday confirmed, he was fj ed
with indignation. The result was that
when the senate went into executive ses
sion this afternoon Mr. Sewall was in a
state of mind that caused him to indulge
in some criticism of the means by which
the confirmations had been secured. Mr.
Smith, the democratic senator from New
Jersey, resented the intimation that the
report from the committee and the action
Of the senate had been secured in a way
that was not entirely fair and insisted
•hat none of Mr. Sewall's rights or
privileges had been imposed upon.
Mr. Chandler, acting chairman ofi the
oommittee, stated that the committee by
a yea and nay vote, Mr. Butler, populist,
having the casting vote, had decided to
make a favorable report and that the
nominations ‘ came up in the ordinary
course of business on the executive cal
endar. This did not modify Mr. Sewall
to any appreciable extent, and he wanted
the confirmations reconsidered. Mr.
Smith made no objection 'to the addition
of a motion recalling the confirmations
from the postoffice department, but he
will resist a motion to reconsider the ac
tion of the senate, which Mr. Sewall will
make at the next executive session.
The nominations of Charles F. Amidon
to be district Judge for the district of
North Dakota, and William Munger to be
district judge for the district of Nebraska,
went over until tomorrow. It was made
very plain that these judicial nominations
are to he contested, some of the republi
cans believing that they should be held
up until after the fourth of March.
IN THE HOUSE.
By the very decisive vote of 96 to 28
the House today affirmed Its intention to
abide by the policy of limiting pensions
for widows of general officers to $50 a
month, and grading from that sum down
for widows of officers of lower rank. The
question arose over the report of the
conferees upon the bill to pension the
widow of Capt. J. Scott Payne, of the
Fifth United States cavalry. It was a
senate bill, and the amount of pension
was originally fixed at $50 a month. The
house reduced It to $30, but in conference
the house managers yielded to the sena
tors and recommended that the house
recede from its amendment. This the
house refused to do, after an hour’s de
bate, in which the matter was fully dis
uubscu aim uy 'me vv/ic buucu uie uxu waa
returned to the conferees.
The conference report on the legisla
tive, executive and Judicial appropriation
bill presented by Mr. Bingham was
agreed to. The principal changes were
in the provisions for the congressional
library. As agreed upon the bill author
izes the president to appoint a librarian
and superintendent, Who must be con
firmed by the senate, who shallreceive$5,
000 a year each, and appoint the subor
dinates in their respective departments—
187 all told.
The bill carries a total appropriation of
$21,717,767.
Mr. Lacy, of Iowa, called up the bill
authorizing the use of reservations made
for reservoir sites.
Amendments were adopted giving the
states the same rigl¥ to enter upon and
improve reservoir sites " as individuals
and corporations; and placing the prices
to-be charged for the water coming from
the reservoir sites and the regulations for
the use of the same under control of the
states in which the sites are situated.
The bill, ns amended, was then passed.
The house entered upon the considera
tion of the contested election case of Hop
kins vs. Kendall, from the Tenth Ken
tucky district, based upon the use of an
Illegal and fraudulent ballot In Clark
county. Without the vote of that coun
ty Hopkins, republican, would be elected,
and the minority recommended that it
be thrown rut and the contestant seated.
The majority of the committee, while
condemning the action of the clerk of the
county, who prepared the ballot, do not
believe that the vote should be rejected,
and recommended that Kendall retain
his seat.
J. G. Daniels, of New York, addressed
the house in support of the committee’s
report, and the house, at 4:15. adjourned.
NOMINATIONS AND CONFIRMA
TIONS.
The senate today confirmed the follow
ing nominations of postmasters:
Georgia—'Anna M. Rose, Carrollton.
Texas—Jessie l* Reose, Velasco; Susan
P. Hyman, Stephenville.
The president today sent to the senate
! the following nominations:
l Medical Inspector, James R. Tryon, to
be medical director; also a number of
other naval promotions.
To be chaplains in the navy: John H.
Mcjunkin, of Iowa; Dean R. Leland, of
New Jersey.
M'KINLEY IMPROVING.
Mark Also In Good Condition and Groom
ing for the Senatorial Bee.
Canton, O., Feb. 17.—Maj. McKinley is
considerably better this evening. He
took, upon the advice of his physician, a
short drive this evening while the sun
was shining bright and the air warm.
Mrs. McKinley, who has also been suf
fering with the grippe, accompanied him.
Maj. McKinley will recover his usual fine
health by the first of next week if he
continues to improve and to abstain from
work. It is not likely that after his re
covery he will see any visitors save the
few for whom he sends.
Mr. Hanna returned to Cleveland this
afternoon. He came to make a friendly
call upon Maj. McKinley and to ask
obout his health.
Mr. Hanna has recovered his own
health and Is in fine condition again. The
feeling in Ohio is that he will be appoint
ed to succees Senator Sherman.
Gen. W. W. Dudley called at noon to
speak with the president-elect, and Mr.
Hanna about selecting an escort to ac
company Maj. McKinley from the depot
in Washington to his hotel. There will
probably be no military escort.
MEDAL OF HONOR
To Be Presented to Creelman for Ex
traordinary Heroism.
Washington Feb. 17.—Secretary Her
bert took with him to Charleston a hand
some gold medal to be presented to Sea
man Creelman, of the battleship Maine,
who sprang from the vessel when men
were washed overboard In the violent
storm, on that vessel’s cruise to Charles
ton. The medal, which is nearly the size
of a silver dollar, bears on its reverse a
picture of the Maine in high relief, and
on its obverse the Inscription: "William J.
Cretlman, United States Navy, for ex
traordinary heroism. February 6, 1X97.
Presented by the secretary of the navy.”
The medal is hung from a heavy bar on
blue ribbon and supports a massive gold
anchor.
BLOCKADE VIRTUALLY OVER
Feasting and Good Cheer Is Now
in Order.
FINE TARGET PRACTICE
Indulged in by the Middies and General Satis
faction Resulted.
FLASHLIGHTS ARE NOT SATISFACTORY
Did Very Well in Clear Weather, but
Could Not Penetrate Fog—Where
the Ships Will Go on
Get-Away Day.
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 17.—It Is under
stood that the maneuvers of Admiral
Bunce’e fleet off Charleston are about
over, that the remaining two days which
the ship will remain in these waters will
be spent In feasting and In pleasure.
There will doubtless be a review in the
presence of Secretary Herbert, of the
navy, when he sails out in the Dolphin,
which came into this port this morning,
tomorrow, but the work for which the
ships came to Charleston has been ac
complished and the fleet will break up
Saturday. It Is understood that the New
Tork, Columbia, Massachusetts, Indiana
and Fern will proceed direct to Hampton
Roads for coal and from thence to New
York, where they will arrive not later
than March 2. The Dolphin and Vesuvi
us will go to the Florida coast looking
for filibusters and the Maine will pro
ceed to New Orleans. Should the Terror
join the fleet in the meantime she will go!
to Norfolk with the flagship. The Am
phitrlte will remain here until .Monday.
Tomorrow Secretary Herbert, Attorney
General Harmon, Admiral Gherardl and
a distinguished party of ladies and gen
tlemen will arrive in the city. They will
be guests of Charleston during their stay
here. Gov. W. H. Ellerbee and the state
officials and members of both houses of
t'he general assembly will also be In the
city for the occasion. A public reception
will be held by Secretary Herbert in the
lUWniWUIl 0.1. HIU nan, a i. uifeiii. a
dinner will be given by the chamber of
commerce. Speeches will be made by
Secretary Herbert, Attorney-General
Harmon, Mayor Smyth and others.
Friday a military and naval ball will be
tendered the visitors by the city. And
this will probably conclude the blockade
of the port of Charleston.
It is impossible Just now to rightly es
timate the results of the manouvres.
Officers who will discuss the matter at all
express great satisfaction at what has
been accomplished. This consisted main
ly in exercises with the searchlights and
guns of the ships. Nightly there was
practicing with the lights on ships’ boats
sen.t out for the special purpose. The
ship would pick the boat up and then,
following it with the light, a record would
be made of the observations taken at all
distances until the limit of the light was
reached. The practicing with the main
batteries was especially important and
interesting. With the smaller guns con
siderable accuracy was developed, some
of the ships striking their floating tar
gets frequently. The work with the heavy
pieces was less accurate, but far more
Instructive, as the men needed this prac
tice the most. The New York, for in
stance, struck her target no less than
twenty times during the practice with
both of her batteries.
While the officers do not say so, It is
probable that the work with the search
lights was somewhat disappointing at
times. On clear nights the lights achieved
perfeot results, but they proved utterly
inadequate to cope with fog or heavy
mist. On the night which the Vesuvius
ran the blockade the lights did not carry
400 yards.
The Maine will leave the fleet tomorrow
and proceed to Port Royal, where she
will coal. It is stated positively by per
sons in a position to know of what they
speak that the ships stood the firing of
the great guns well, neither the guns,
turrets nor gear of any kind receiving
any Injury.
"COL.” HARRIS CAPTURED.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 17.—A special
to the Advertiser from Chlpley, Fla., says
"Colonel” Harris, a notorious negro des
perado who escaped from the Donaldson,
Ga., camp a few days ago, was captured
in that place today. Tne negro was
serving a life time sentence for mur
der.
VERY CLEVER^ DIPLOMACY
Sent the Anti-Cigarette Bill Up
the Flume.
WEARY W|rN OUT SENATORS
Sfu_
Caught Napf,o and By a Ruse the Measure
<■0 Sent to Committee
jjr
TO DF jr E ITS CONSTITUTIONALITY
Auth( the Bill Much Disconcerted Over
the Defeat of His Pet Hobby-Clerks
About Up With Their Work.
Newsy Capital Gossip.
Montgomery, Feb. 17.—(Special.)—It de
veloped today for the first time that the
anti-cigarette bill had been smothered to
death In the senate yesterday. In a mo
ment of abstraction in that body yester
day afternoon an opponent of the meas
ure, It is not recorded whom, arose and
moved to refer the anti-cigarette bill,
denoting it by number only, it is said,
from the calendar to the judiciary com
mittee for examination as to its consti
tutionality'. The members were worn
out and weary and without demurx-er
voted to commit the bill as indicated.
No meeting of the assembly was held
today, and the bill could not therefore be
reported back for a second hearing until
tomorrow, and as that will be the last
day of the session it cannot progress any
further. The bill as passed by the house
was approved byr the governor, and but
for It’s having been set back one day on
yesterday, would have passed the senate
tomorrow with only three negative votes
against It, It is stated. Dr. Cameron, au
thor cf the bill, worked Industriously In
Its behalf, and was astonished today
when he learned of Its defeat.
The clerks have been hard at work en
rolling bills,today, and will be up with
their work when the assembly meets to
morrow.
BALTIMORE GETS THE BONDS.
It is announced tonight that Percy &
Co., of Baltimore, made the best bid and
secured the $150,000 issue of Montgomery
paving bonds. The amount of their bid
is not known.
•NAMED FOR WEST POINT.
Congressman Goodwyn, populist, has
appointed John A. Lancaster, of Elmore,
cadet from his district to West Point.
DENIES THE CRIME.
Augusta, Ga., Feb. 17.—At a dance near
here last night John Welch shot and
killed Bruce Wilson. Welch was ar
rested ten miles from the scene today
and jailed 'here tonight. He denies the
act and says he knows nothing of it.
MICHIGAN FUSIONISTS
Name a Ticket and Declare Bryan the
Greatest Living Exponent of Jeffer
sonian Principles.
Grand Rapids, Mich., Feb. 17.—The
state convention of the silver democrats,
silver republicans and populists was heid
today to select a candidate for justice of
the supreme bench and a regent of the
university. The middle of the road pop
ulists, under the lead of John O. Zabel, of
Monroe, refused to fuse and held a con
vention and nominated John O. Zabel, of
Monroe, for justice of the supreme court
and Robert McDougal, of Hillsdale, and1
M. O. Graves, of Petoskey, for regents.
The fusionists adopted resolutions which
reaffirmed the Chicago platform, declared
that the free and unlimited coinage of
both gold and silver at the ratio of 16 to
1 was the paramount issue and the only
solution of the present business depres
sion; opposed the retirement of the na
tional paper money and replacing it with
notes issued by banking corporations and
declared that W. J. Bryan was the great
est living exponent of Jeffersonian prin
ciples, the true friend of the people and
the logical standard bearer for democ
racy in laoo. The convention then took
a recess until evening.
DEEDS OF ASSIGNMENT FILED.
Richmond, Vo., Feb. 17.—A deed of as
signment was Hied at 3:45 o’clock this
afternoon by Mr. Cyrus Belsseaux, team
ster and business man of Richmond. The
liabilities are placed at $50,000. W. B.
Tennant is the trustee. He assigns all
his real and personal property. The
deed covers a long list of creditors di
vided into five classes. Mr. Walter
Scott, furniture dealer, filed a deed of
assignment In the clerk’s ofllce of the
chancery court this morning, naming C.
C. Ohapln as trustee. Mr. Scott’s lia
bilities are estimated at $7,000.
THE HIGHWAYMAN DIED.
Bridgeport, Conn., Feb. 17.—Charles
White, the highwayman, who was shot
while attempting to rob Thomas and
Henry Rylands, in East Bridgeport, last
night, died at 1:30 this afternoon. He
made no statement. Thomas Rylands is
treasurer of a building and loan associa
tion, and with his brother for company
was returning from a meeting with $1,400
when the robbery was attempted. The
Rylands wedp armed and gave battle to
the robbers, of whom there were three.
Two escaped unhurt, and have not since
been captured.
FAVORABLE TO HOMESTEADERS.
Washington, Feb. 17.—In order that cer
tain homesteaders in Alabama, LaFay
ette. Levy. Suwanee, Bradford, Baker
and Columbia counties Florida, may sell
the timber on their lands felled by the
storm of September 29, last, a bill was
today passed by the senate granting them
that right. It has already passed tho
house and now goes to the president.
DEED OF AN ASSASSIN.
Knoxville, Tenn., Feb. 17.—John Heck,
manager of the Royal Coke and Coal
company, of this city, was shot by an
unknown assassin from ambush and In
stantly killed this afternoon at Coal
Creek. The murderer fled towards Carey
ville, and is being pursued by a posse.
The deceased leaves a bride of four
weeks.
A TURKISH DEFEAT.
London, Feb. 17—Thu Dally News will
print tomorrow advices from Athens say
ing It Is reported there that a part of
the ’'corps of occupation,” commanded
by Col. Vassos, today attacked the town
of Boucolion. The Turkish garrison, after
a brief resistance, yielded, and the Greek
force took possession.BIRMINGHAM
HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1897.
NUMBER 28
THE MOTHERS' CONGRESS
The Attendance Has Outgrown
All Expectations.
IMPORTANT DISCUSSIONS
Several Meetings Held Outside of the Regular
Session.
FOUR BAPTIST CHURCHES CROWDED
To Their Utmost Capacity and There Was
Not an Available beat in theChurch
Whore the Regular Session
Was Held.
Washington, Feb. 18.—The National
Congress of Mothers, now holding its flr.=t
session, in this city, has outgrown the
expectations of its most sanguine promo
ters by the number of delegates in at
tendance, the importance of its discus
sions and the interest manifested in its
proceedings. Some of the lady promo
ters of the congress who recently esti
mated a probable attendance of 200 or
300 ladies, were overwhelmed by the pres
ence of 1,800 or more at the first session,
with constant accessions. This necessi
tated a sudden and complete remodelling
nf the plans for housing the convention
and conducting the exercises.
Besides the regular sessions of the con
gress today several meetings were held
this morning before the regular session,
at which different members of the con
gress presided. In the banquet hall of
the Arlington hotel, Mrs. Henry J. Fin
ley, chairman of the press committee,
presided over a conference.
Dr. Ada L. Thomas made a short ad
dress entitled, “Accidents; What to Do
Before the Doctor Comes.”
At the conclusion of Dr. Thomas' ad
dress, Mrs. Hornpenn, Mr?. Heyel'sberger
and Miss Alice Fletcher, of the Anthro
pological society, gave short and inter
esting talks on “Fear; How to Overcome
It in Children.”
i me r irst Dapusi cnuruu, xvxisa cw
ton, of Chicago, presided over a confer
ence at the same hour as that held at the
Arlington hotel. Miss Janeatte Rich
ards read a paper on the “Necessity of
Schools for Trained Nurses,” which was
followed by an address on "Punish
ments,” by Mrs. Putnam.
Notwithstanding the early hour at
which the conferences were held (9 a. m.),
both the banquet hall of the Arlington
hotel and 'the four Baptist churches were
crowded to their utmost capacity. Long
before the time set for the opening of thei
morning pession, 10:30 a. m., there*was not
a/n available seat in the church, and when
Mrs. Birney called the regular meeting
to order, Mrs. Maud Ballington Booth, of
New York city, made the devotional ad
dress. The audience Joined in singing
“Nearer, My God, to Thee,” after which
Mrs. Booth read a few verses from the
Bible. During the course of her remarks
she said:
“It is a great comfort and strength to
feel that we have the right to turn and
claim the great, strong hand of God.”
“It seems that those persons who stand
today in the position of mothers should
feel grateful for the light and teachings
which God has brought to our eyes.”
In speaking of mother’s love, Mrs.
Booth compared it to divine love, the
strongest love imaginable. A true wo
man, continued Mrs. Booth, should have
this wonderful mother’s love whether or
not she was a mother.
Speaking of her experiences in the dif
ferent prisons, she said it made no dif
ference how low a criminal had fallen
or what crime he had committed, there
were times during his incarceration when
he still showed some traces of his moth
er's training.
One of the^greatest errors ever com
mitted by any legislature, continued Mrs.
Booth, and one that is a very black spot
on t'he name of New York state, was to
deprive the convicts of Sing Sing of work.
Referring to the advancement of women
she said that should a woman engaged
in the different meetings held at the pres
ent time it was no excuse whatever for
her to neglect her children.
At tne conclusion oi ivirs. Boom s au
dress, Mrs. Birney announced an over
flow meeting down stairs for the benefit
of the large number of visitors who were
unable to gain admittance Mrs.
Louise E. Hogan, of Germantown, Pa.,
next addressed the congress on "Diete
tics.'' In conclusion Mrs. Hogan said:
“Few seem conscious that there Is such,
a thing as physical morality. Men’s
habitual words and acts Imply that they
are at liberty to treat their bodies as
they please. The fact is, all breaches of
the law of health are physical sins. When,
this Is generally seen, then, and per
haps not till then, will the physical train
ing of the young receive all the attention
it deserves."
Mrs. Alice Lee Moque, of Washington,
read a paper on "Reproduction and Na
tural Law.” She said that It was the
old theory that parents were Involunta
rily, Irresponsible agents of God in the
propogation of the species. Now it was
considered that careless parentage was
little less than a crime. The child de
served the most serious and laborious
study. Men-and women are often influ
enced by trifles light as air in entering
upon marriage. A girl ought, before al
lowing herself to love, to consider the
health, mental constitution, position in
life, means of support, of the man she
may wed. Also she must consider her
self.
Also, she must consider herself. “The
first consideration Is health. Women
ought first to be emancipated from the
doctors. Mother love ought to be exer
cised before maternity is entered on,
after it is too late to remedy many ills.
Right living and right loving ought to
complement each other In the man and
woman who take upon themselves the
duties of paternity."
'Mrs. Helen H. Gardner, of Boston, read
a paper on “The Mqral Responsibility of
Women Heredity.” She said if "a woman
is not brave enough to demand and main
tain personal liberty and entire control
of her great and race-endowing func
tion of maternity she has no right to dare
to stamp upon a child and. to curse a race
with the descendants of such a service,
a dwarfed, a time and master-serving
character.” Subjected mothers never
will produce a race of free, well-poised,
justice-practicing children. With her re
marks the morning work ended. ,
The overflow meeting was in charge of
Mrs. Hears!, Mrs. Margaret Sangster and
Mrs. Henroten. of Chicago, president of
the Woman's Federation.
AFTERNOON MEETING.
When Mrs. Birney, president of tho
congress, called the meeting to order this
afternoon, notwithstanding the fact that
the morning session had adjourned only
an hour before, there was no visible de
crease In the number of attendants.
Miss Francis Newton, of Chicago, de
livered the opening address on "The
Mother's Greatest Needs.” Miss Newton
is an experienced kindergarten teacher,
and her address dealt with what the
home means for the child.
Miss Constance MacKtnzie, of Phila
delphia, the next speaker, delivered an
interesting address on "Play-Grounds.”
Dr. H. Stanley Hall, of Worcester,
Mass., followed Miss MacKenzle, and was
the last speaker of the afternoon session.
He delivered an address on "Some Practi
cal Results of Child Study.” A growing
child in Germany, said Dr. Hall, enters
school when about 5 or 6 years of age,
and over 9 per cent, have a defective
eyesight. All tjsts show an alarming in
crease in defective sight during school
life. A great many of them have de
fective hearing, which causes general
swpidity, and some times results in chil
dren being sent to schools for dullards,
when If they had their proper hearing
facilities they would undoubtedly be as
bright as the average child of the age.
When school work undermines the health,
continued Dr. Hall, "the child shoe's not
be educated, as the gowje accomplished
will not be sufficient te/'offst‘t the harm
done.” In conclusion. Dr. Hall spoke of
religion as the study which must be
taught to bring the child In closer rela
tionship with nature.
EVENING SESSION.
The evening session of the Mother’s
Congress was held In Central hall, to ac
commodate Che enormous audiences
which had been attracted to the earlier
sessions. The report of the press com
mittee was prefaced by a statement from
Its chairman, Miss Isabella Lyson, of
Baltimore, regarding the Impure press
and its baneful Influences.
The following resolution, offered by
Alice C. Robinson, of Baltimore, was
adopted bv a practically unanimous vote:
Realizing the almost limitless power,
for good or for evil, exerted by the daily
press, and that the proper education of
the youth of our land is of vital import
ance to the future prosperity of the state,
resolved, that we will admit into our
homes> only those papers which inspire
to noble thoughts and deeds, and that
our influence shall go towards cultivat
ing the publio taste, until it shall demand
from the press only that which elevates
and refines.
Mrs. Margaret r . sangster. or i\ew
York, deli-cred an appreciative address
on the subject of reading matter for
mothers and children replete with advice
on the character of volumes that should
be found in the library of every well
regulated domestic circle. She men
tioned a number of biographical works
and some Action that should be used in
cour-os of reading for months and made
a strong plea for fairy tales for child
ren’s reading during the formative pe
riod. The Anal address of the session was
by Anthony Comstock, who cited sensa/
tional instances of his experience, show
ing to what an extent obscene literature
was circulated in the boarding schools
and colleges for both sexes throughout
the country and the need of effective co
operation from parents and others to
abolish an evil which was destroying
the morals of half the population of the
United States. In conclusion he pro
posed action by the congress supporting
national, and state legislation to pre
vent the publication and distribution of
all kinds of literature of the dime novel
variety and to prohibit the printing of
murder trials and other descriptions cal
culated to inform children of criminal
methods.
TRUSTS AND MONOPOLIES, '
_ * \
The New York Legislative Committee In
vestigation Discuss the Question
Before a Large Audience.
New Y'ork, Feb. IS—Senator Lexow and
his colleagues of the joint legislative com
mittee appointed to investigate the ex
istence of trusts and monopolies in this
state, met again this morning. In an
ticipation of an interesting discussion
there was a large attendance of the out
side public. President H. O. Havemeyer,
of the sugar reAnlng company, was not
present, but he sent word that he would
appear after recess. He had gone to the
funeral of William P. St. John.
Mr. Charles R. Flint, and the rubber
trust w'ere accordingly put in the cruci
ble. Chairman Lexow’s questions were
directed to drawing from Mr. Flint some
information in regard to the destruction
by agents or employes of the rubber trust
of facilities for the manufacture of rub
ber at different points on Long Island.
Mr. Flint, however, professed ignorance
of any such proceeding. There is a good
deal of statement of fact or assertion in
Mr. Lexow’s method of questioning and
Mr. Flint’s replies were in contradiction
or lack of knowledge of the subject of
Mr. Lexow’s questions.
Mr. mint stated tnat wages in me ruo
ber factories were the same now as be
fore organization of his company; that
the number of employes has decreased
and that the price of rubber shoes had
increased, not as much, however, as Mr.
Lexow’s question alleged.
A factors agreement between the man
ufactures and dealers, similar to the one
mentioned in the sugar and soda investi
gation appears to be used in the rubber
trade. Mr. Lexow’s questions Indicated
that the rubber company paid 12 per
cent, dividends last year, but Mr. Flint
said the dividend was 1 per cent. Then
Chairman Lexow endeavored to make
Mr. Flint admit that t!S stock of the
rubber company was h'“.'ily watered—
principally water in fact.
After recess Mr. Havemeyer put in an
appearance.
Mr. Lexow asked if he had brought the
trust deed of the American Sugar Re
fiinlng company. He had not, and did
not know where it was. Lawyer Par
sonB, counsel for the sugar company,
who was present, said it had been in
his possession, but he did not know where
it could be found.
Mr. Havemeyer said that the figures
Showing the distribution of the pre
ferred stock of the company were cut out
by Mr. Parsons by permission of the Ar
nold committee at the time of the inves
tigation by the United States session.
Neither Havemeyer nor Parsons could
tell what became of the books of the orig
inal trust.
They presumed the books had been
destroyed.
Mr. Havemeyer expressed regret that
the trust deed had not been destroyed
as in his opinion it was that deed that
had caused all the persecution of the
sugar company.
Prosecutor Lexow suggested, but Have
meyer adhered to his words. The sugar
people were then dismissed, with the re
mark from Chairman Lexow that the
only question remaining for them was
the production of the deed of trust. All
other information bad been supplied.
The Wall Paper trust ms next put un
der fire in the person of its president,
Henry Burn. His concern was stocked
to the amount of $25,000,000. It controlled
about 65 pur cent, of the business, seven
teen concerns being left out of the trust.
Witness said the combination did not re
strict the output cf wall paper, although
more concerns had been closed: that in
the first year of the organization the
product had Increased 25 or 30 per cent.;
that more labor had been employed than
before; that wages had not decreased,
and. that the familiar agreement with
sellers was used In this trade. Witness
was directed to produce this agreement
tomorrow.
ADMIRAL OUNCE’S FLEET
Viev/ed by Thousands of South
Carolinians.
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
Present, Together With Gov. Ellerbe and Other
State Officers.
NAVAL CADET GHERADI TOASTED
By Secretary Herbert—W. J. Creelman Pre
sented With a Hold Medal and an En
velope Containing $100 for His
Gallantry During the Storm
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 18.—Charleston
has been thronged throughout the day by
thousands of strangers from South Car
olina and the neighboring states, who
had come to the city to see Admiral
Bunce’s fleet, that has been blockading
this i>ort, pass in review before Secretary
of the Navy H. A. Herbert. Among the
special guests of the city for the day
were: Gov. W. H. Ellerbe, of South Caro
lina; all the state officers, senators and
legislators. These gentlemen were
brought to Charleston during the day,
and they were the most interested spec
tators of the official communications
which occurred between the fleet and
the secretary. Secretary Herbert and his
party, consisting of Mrs. B. M. Micou,
Mrs. Cliiver, iMrs. Southerland, Mrs. Har
rison, Hon. M. C. Butler, Col. T. S. Par
row, Mr. H. L. Finney, Jr., and H. A.
Herbert, Jr., arrived In the city from
Washington In 'the special car "Scipio,”
via the Atlantic CoaBt Line, at 6 o’clock
this morning. They were met at the de
pot at 8 o’clock by a committee consist
ing of Mayer Smyth, Collector of the
Pert George D. Bryan. District Attorney
W. Perry Murphy, T. R. McGahan, Geo.
B. Edwards and St. John P. Kinlock.
As the secretary stepped from his car a
salute of twenty-seven guns was fired
by detachments by the first division.
South Carolina naval reserves, under
Capt. Dubos. The party was then es
corted to the Charleston hotel, where
breakfast was served, and the secretary
and his friends rested until 11 o’clock.
They were then escorted to the custom
house, where they boarded the revenue
cutter Colfax. The secretary was saluted
as he boarded the ships, all of the sail
ors being drawn up in man-of-war fash
ion. A few minutes later Gov. Ellerbe’s
special train drew up on the siding, and
the governor, lintenant-governor, M. B.
McSweeney and Speaker F. B. Gary
were taken, off to the cutter, salutes being
also awarded them. The harbor was full
of pleasure craft of all descriptions,
which only awaited for the cutter to lead
the way to cast loose their hawsers and
follow her to the bar. The day was an
ideal one. In the city it had been so
warm that wraps were uncomfortable,
but on the water, top coats were not out
of place.
At the entrance to the Jetties an un
foreseen trouble arose. The cutter and
its train of pleasure craft ran full into
a heavy fog, which set the whistles and
bells ago In a perfect din of noice. Many
of the small boats put back into port and
the larger vessels slowed up their en
gines and drifted around for an hour.
The cutter worked her way down to the
Columbia, where Secretary Herbert re
quested the presence of Capt. Sands on
the cutter. Cnpt. Sands informed him
that the flagship New York was lying
just to the northward, and the Colfax
moved off once more. When the flagship
was picked up in the fog Admiral Bunce
received a summons, from the secretary
and came alongside in his cutter. The
moment he stepped aboard his pennant
was run up and the little cutter became
the flagship. The admiral was told by
the secretary that he desired to board the
battleship Maine to present Seaman W,
J. Creelman with a medal awardeef him
fbr his distinguished conduct during the
storm. So, with both secretary and ad
miral aboard, the cutter once more got
under way. Capt. Crownlnshield, of the
Maine, was hailed, and informed that the
two officials would beard his ^hip with
their party. The transfer was made
without trouble, the jackoes and officers
receiving their superior officers with the
customary salute and formality. With
the ship’s erew drawn up on deck, Capt.
Crownlr.shleld gave the orders for Naval
Cadtt Gherardi, his gunDoat crew ana
Seaman W. J. Creelman, to step forward.
Addressing them S cretary Herbert spoke
of their gallant conduct during the storm.
They had, he said, made him proud of the
navy, and then, singling out. Creelman,
the secretary presented him with the
gold medal and an envelope containing
$100 with a few words in commendation of
his gallant deed. Creelman, It will be re
membered, sprang overboard while the
storm was at Its height and attempted
to rescue one of his ship mates. When
these ceremonies were concluded the vis
itors became the guests of the ward
room of t'he Maine. When the company
was seated, Secretary Herbert lifted his
glass, and said that he requested that
every one should rise and drink the
health of Naval Cadet Gherardi, whose
gallantry was now the admiration of
his fellow officers and the nation.
Nearly two hours had been spent on
the Maine. When the secretary returned
to the Colfax accompanied by Admiral
Bunce, the cutter steamed down the line
of warships, receiving from each a salute
as she crossed the bow. This ended the
ceremonies of the day and the cutter
steered for port, arriving at her dock at
6:30 p. m.
Tonight Secretary Herbert, Gov. El
lerbe, Admiral Bunce, the captains and
executive officers of each of the ships
became the guests of the chamber of
commerce at a banquet given at the
Charleston hotel. Covers were laid for
200 and the banquet was a most elaborate
one. The set speeches of the evening
were made by Mayor Smyth, welcoming
the visitors to the city; Secretary Herbert
and Gov. Ellerbe. Impromptu speeches
were also made by other gentlemen,
among whom was Admiral Bunce. Re
sponding to “Our Navy,” Secretary Her
bert made the main speech of the day.
The Maine was today ordered to New
Orleans. The Amphitrlte. Dolphin, Ve
suvius and Fern came into the harbor
tonight. During the morning the fleet
was Joined by the Terror which will come
up to the city tomorrow. The reception
which has been tendered Secretary Her
bert will take place at the city hall to
morrow aft'etnoon at 4:30, and at night
the secretary, admiral and officers will
be guests of the city at a naval ball.
SMALLPOX AT’ PENSACOlA. •
Washington, Feb. 18.—The navy depart
ment received a telegram today announc
ing a case of smallpox at the Pensacola
navy yard, and Acting Secretary Mc
Adoo promptly authored the expendi
ture of $600, If needed! to erect a tem
porary hospital there.
A WHOLESALE MASSACRE
Two Thousand Moslems Bite the
Dust.
LITEA NEARLY DEPOPULATED
Women and Children Are Killed Indiscrimi
nately By Christians.
PREPARING FOR AN EMERGENCY
Union With Grecos George Besowilh Pasha
Thinks the Only Solution of the Diffi
culties Prevailing In the Island.
No Other Besouioe.
Canea, Feb. 18.—Rumors of a whole
sale massacre of Mussulmans at Sltla
have reached here, some of the reports
placing the number of killed at 2,000,
which includes almost the entire Moslem
population of the town. It is said that
men, women and children were killed in
discriminately by the Christians. It is
Impossible at present to confirm the re
ports, but the rumors have created the
deepest anxiety here. Gen. Bor, who is
in command of the gendarmerie at
Canea, has sent two Italian officers of 'the
gendarmerie to Sitia In a gunboat to
inquire into the truth or falsity of the
reports. The fort at Voucoulis, which is
garrisoned by 500 Turkish troops, has
been besieged for several days by a large
force of well armed insurgents. Yester
day the commander of the besieging
force called upon the Turkish commander
to surrender and promised safe conduct
to any of the garrisons who chose to ac
cept it.
The Turks refused to surrender on any
terms. It is stated that the garrison has
provisions enough to last for twenty
dayB and a plentiful supply of ammuni
tion. It is reported that Greek troops
started, today for Voucoulis to aid the in
surgents in, the capture of the place.
-o
PREPARING FOR EMERGENCY.
Saad Ed Din Pasha Is Not Returning to
Crete.
Constantinople, Feb. 18.—The report
sent out in dispatches from Athens that
Saad Ed Din Pasha, who was recently
recalled here from Crete at the instance
of the powers for fomenting anti-reform
movements among the inhabitants of the
Island, was about to. start, and, in fact,
had been started on his return to Crete
at the head of three battalions of Turk
ish troops, is without foundation.
The porte is placing every confidence
in the assurances of the powers in regard
to their pacification of Crete, preven
tion of Greek aggressions, etc., but at the
S3 roe time the Ottoman government is
making extensive preparations for meet
ing any emergency that may arise from
the course of events.
UNION WITH GREECE.
George Berovltch Pasha Says It Is the
Only Solution.
Athens, Feb. 18.—George Berovltch
Pasha, late Christian governor of Crete,
who resigned his office and left Canea
on February 14, has arrived at Corfu,
where he has been interviewed by rep
resentatives of the press. In describing
the sluatlon from his point of view the
ex-governor says that from the moment
of the raising of the Greek flag in Crete
It became plain that the only solution
of the difficulties prevailing In the Island
was Its union with Greece. In his opin
ion, any other course will result in a
bloody catastrophe.
-o——
AUSTRIAN SQUADRON
In Crete Waters Has Been Rein
forced.
Vienna, Feb. 18.—The Austrian squad
ron In Cretan waters has been reinforced
and Admiral Hlnke has assumed com
mand.
MASSACRE AT SITIA.
Two Thousand Moslems Bite the
Dust.
Vienna, Feb. 18.—The Noue Freie
Presse says that 2,000 Moslems have been
massacred at Sltla In the extreme ex
tremity of Crete. The paper adds that
the Greek forces are surrounding the
Moslem village on the Island. The fore
going is officially announced in Constan
tinople, w'here the Intelligence has cre
ated much excltemen4.
GREEK TROOPS
Said to Occupy the Town' of
Sltia.
Athens, Feb. 18.—It was rumored here
tonight that Greek troops had occupied
the town of Sltia, but up to a late hour
no confirmation of the rumor could be
obtained.
—-O— 1 —
RESERVES CALLED OUT.
Sixty-Four Thousand Ordered to the
Front.
Constantinople, Feb. 18.—The govern
ment has called out 64,000 reserves In the
provinces of Broussa and Troblzond.
THE ARBITRATIOFtREATY
And the Amldon Case the Theme of Dis
cussion In the Executive Ses
sion of the Senate.
Washington, Feb. 18.—Immediately af
ter the senate went Into executive session
Senator Sherman, of Ohio, sought to call
up the general treaty of arbitration with
Great Britain, but he met with a repulse
at the very outset. A motion was made
that business on the calendar be proceed
ed with, the argument being that there
were a number of important nominations,
particularly of a judicial character that
ought to be acted upon. The yeas and
nays were demanded and those favor
ing the consideration of the nominations
won. The nomination of William H.
Munger, of Nabraska, to be district Judge
for the district .of Nebraska, was confirm
ed without opposition. The nomination
of Charles F. Amldon, to be district judge
for the district of North Dakota, was
then called up.
The debate on -the Amldon case Tasted
for more than three hours, Mr. Hans
brough, the republican senator from
North Dakota, speaking In opposition
two-thirds of the time. The senate evi
dently looked upon the antagonism to Mr.
Amldon in the light of political opposition
only, and by the decisive vote of 35 to 14
confirmed the nomination.
By a further vote of 32 to 27, the sen
ate decided at 5:30 to take up the arbi
tration treaty and the debate on that
convention began whefMHr. Nelson, of
Minnesota, took the floor for the purpose
of moving the postponement of the fur
ther consifltTatinn of the treaty until
March 5. Mr. Nel.-on was anxious to
have 'the bankruptcy bill called up and
believed that this and other pressing busi
ness should be attended to at the pres
ent session. The treaty could go over
until the extra session without harm.
Hoar, Lodge and Platt took strong
grounds against postponement. To the
surprise of the senate, Mr. Vest came out
in a strong speech favoring the early
ratification of the treaty as amended. He
declared that the people of the United
States demanded this convention; that
its negotiation was the result of a desire
for peace and general arbitration on the
part of the people of the two great TSng
lish speaking peoples of the world. It
was a good treaty and ought to be rati
fied.
Mr. Sherman, in a very brief statement,
said he believed the vote ought now to ba
taken, and he was confident that if it
were the treaty would be ratified. Several
senators disputed this statement, and
asked Mr. Sherman if he really thought
there were sufficient votes to ratify the
treaty. Mr. Sherman replied that he be
lieved as he had always believed that
when the test came the necessary two
thirds of the senate would be found vot
ing for the ratification of this treaty.
He expressed the hope that no further de
lay would be Indulged in and that sena
tors would agree to the vote.
Senators Morgan and Daniel, both of
whom are opposed to the treaty, said
they were prepared to go on with the de
bate if Mr. Sherman desired a night ses
sion, but this statement frightened oth
ers who were tired of the proceedings,
and a motion was made to adjourn. Tills
motion was defeated by a small majority,
several of the opponents of the treaty
voting not to adjourn.
Senator Blackburn, of Kentucky, as
serted his opposition to the convention,
and decland it could not be amended in
any way so as to meet with his approv
al. At the same time he believed the is
sue should be met squarely and without
dodging. Mr. Sherman, who had charge
of the treaty, and who was to be the pre
mier of the incoming administration, was
entitled to the courtesy of a vote. He
hoped the motion to postpone would not
be pressed, and urged with that empha
sis for which the Kentucky senator is
noted that the question be disposed of
finally.
By this time the hour of 7 was ap
proached, and Mr. Sherman saw that it
was impossible to keep a quorum present.
He therefore gave notice that immediate
ly after the routine business of tomorrow
he should move an executive session, at
which he hoped the treaty would be dis
posed of.
Mr. snerman urged senators to De pres
ent and remain until the vote was taken. '
There seems to be a disposition to com
ply with Mr. Sherman’s request, and the |
chances appear to be rather good for a ,
session extending- well into the evening.
POSTMASTER-GEN. WILSON
Accepts the Presidency of the Washing
ton and Lee University—Herbert
Abolishes the Naval Steel
Board.
Washington, Feb. 18.—Postmaster-Gen
eral Wilson authorizes the statement th3t
he has accepted t'he presidency of the
Washington and Lee university.
Acting Secretary MeAdoo and Admiral
Ramsey have authorized an unqualified
denial of the public assertion that Ad
miral Bunce has sent a report to the de
partment criticising the vessels of his
squadron or reoommended expenditures
approximating a million dollars, or In
tact any extended report at all. On the
contrary as a result of the stormy trip
to Charleston, the additional repairs and
expenditures required Is a whale boat to
replace the one lost by the Maine. The
published statements are declared to be
a collection of the academic criticisms
passed upon the ships by various officers
In the past three or four years.
Secretary Herbert’s final act before
leaving for Charleston yesterday was to
sign an order abolishing the naval steel
board and transferring Its work to the
bureaus of steam engineering and con
struction. This board, which was con
structed by Secretary Whitney, has been
for nearly twelve years the source of con
tinual trouble In the navy department,
and the subject of drastic criticism a,t
all times. Yesterday Naval Constructor
Dashlel was ordered to the construction
bureau, and all matters pertaining to
ships' material were transferred with
him. Similarly Assistant Engineer Free
man was transferred, together with all
machinery matters,>tc., to the steam en
gineering bureau and the third member
of the board, Its chairman, Capt. Coffin,
Is to be given other duty.
The resolution before the senate com
mittee on military affairs providing for
the presence of the West Point cadets at
•the inauguration appears to make but lit
tle headway. The subject was brought
up this morning, but no action was taken.
The committee appears to be about even
ly divided, but Mr. Hawley hopes to get
a favorable report for a special meeting
to be held next Monday.
Meanwhile he has been in communica
tion with the railroads for the purpose
of fixing as low a rate as possible for the
boys. He has been successful in this and
believes that the committee will eventual
ly order a favorable report.
SENSATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
Are Growing Out of the Johnson-Pitts
Shooting Affray.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 18.—A special to the
Constitution from Griffin, Gn„ says:
There were some very sensational de
velopments today growing out of the
shooting affray between Dr. G. E. John
son and J. T. Pitts, which occurred here
last week.
Late this afternoon Pitts took out a
warrant for Johnson, charging him with
assaulting Mrs. Pitts.
Johnson was arrested and gave bond In
the sum of $400.
Johnson says he Is not guilty.
Pitts and his wife declare that the
charges In the warrant are true. Johnson
has been their physician since last June,
and was admitted to their house and
looked upon as an honorable man, they
claim, until the commisison of the act
which led to all thetrouble.
The warrant states the date to be Jan
uary 13, but Mrs. Pitts fixes It on another
date.
On Jan. 27 they say that Johnson signed
a paper In their presence admitting un
becoming conduct and agreeing to leave
the city In five days and not tp return
except In case of serious Illness in his
family. He failed to act up to his agree
ment, hence the subsequent action.
This paper they sayjs in the. hands of
their attorneys, Harris county.
THE ELECTION COMMITTEE
Reversed for the First Time This
Session,
A NEW POSTAL CARD BILL
Passes the $ ^»te Without One Word of Ex
pfanation.
THAT
! ^ERAL DEFICIENCY BILL
Appropr) Jiir $8,430,937 Will Be Called
Up if ®ie House Today—Mississippi
Jf y-rovements from Head of
passes to the Mouth.
/ £
Washington, Feb. 18.—The senate to
day passed without a word of explana
tion,, a bill, which If It becomes law, will
Introduce a new postal card system.
Its title Is "A bill to extend the uses of
the mail service.” It was Introduced in
the early part of last session by Mr. Vi
las (dem„ AVIs.) and was referred to the
postofflee committee, from which it rvas
reported back with amendments on the
18th of last month. A week ago an at
tempt was made to have it passed by
unanimous consent; but objection was
then made by Mr. Allen, who said that
from the reading of the bill It appeared to
propose the conferring of a monopoly.
Mr. Vilas admitted that It did confer a
monopoly, but said that, as the company
concerned owned the patent for the In
vention, there must necessarily be a mo
nopoly. Mr. Allen promised to look into
the matter; and when Mr. Vilas asked
unanimous consent today for the pas
sage of the bill, and said that Mr. Allen
was satisfied with It, no objection was
made and the bill was passed without
it being even read except by title. Its
purpose is to allow the circulation by
mail of the postal cards and envelopes
with coupons attached, patented and
owned by a West Virginia corporation,
at regular postal cards and letter rates
“paid on presentation of the coupons
fr un the said cards and envelopes when
detached at the office of delivery."
The postmaster general is to test the
practical operation of the plan in one or
two more cities and to suspend Its opera
tion if the test proves unfavorable. There
are nine sections to the bill, but they do
not convey a very clear Idea of the plan.
The senate had spent only twenty
minutes in executive session when, on
motion of Senator Sherman, of Ohio, tha
galleries were cleared, the doors closed
and the consideration of executive busi
ness entered upon
At 6:35 p. m. the senate adjourned un
til tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
In the contested case of Hopkins, re
publican, vs. Kendall, democrat, from
the Tenth Kentucky district, for the lirst
time this Besslon, on a direct Issue of
fact, reversed the decision of Its commit
tee on elections, and seated a contestant
whom the committee had declared not
elected. The case turned upon the action
of the county clerk of Clark county, Ken
tucky. who, without proper authority,
substituted what was called in the de
bate “an odious thieving coon” on the
official ballots in place of the eagle, chos
en emblem of the republican party of
Kentucky. It was admitted by the com
mittee that this was a "transparent
fraud,” and that it was done with Intent
to deceive; but It was contended that tha
number of colored votes lost in this man
ner was not enough to overcome the sit
ting member's majority of 253 over hl3
contestant. The minority report contend
ed that fraud vitiated, and that the en
tire vote of the contestant must be
thrown out. After an exceedingly ani
mated discussion the house sustained
this view by a vote of 197 to 97. On the
only previous occasion In this congress
where the election committee received a
set-DacK, Mr. wiinam 1-1. aiooay, or
■Massachusetts, who led the forlorn hopa
In today's debate In support of the ma
jority report, was the successful assail
ant. He made a minority report of one in
the case of "Rinaker and Downing.”
from the First Illinois district, not in
favor of seating Rinaker, but of having
a recount of the vote. In this the house
sustained him, and on a recount Rinaker
was seated. In the division today of
the ten republicans who voted to sustain
the majority of the committee, three were
from "Massachusetts, which led Mr.
Haldy, a republican, of Indiana, to re
mark that Massachusetts had "slobbered
over too much,” an Insult to Massachu
setts, which Mr. Moody Indignantly re
sented.
The rest of the session was given up to
the passage of the bills by consent, which
led the leader to consent to a speedy ad
journment, and at 4:30 the house ad
journed until tomorrow.
The general defflciency bill wms re
ported to the house from the committee
on appropriations, with notice that It
would be called up tomorrow. The bill
carries an appropriation of $8,430,937.
Among the Items In the bill arc the fol
lowing:
To enable the secretary of the treas
ury to restore the compensation of em
ployes at the ports of Baltimore. Buffalo,
Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Cedar
Keys, Detroit. Kansas City. Mo.: Mobile,
Newport News, New Orleans. Port Hu
ron, Mich.; Pensacola. Pembina. N. D.,
and Philadelphia, whose salaries were
reduced in order to avoid a deficiency in
the appropriations for the collecting of
revenues. $41,381.
Conitnuing improvement of th? Missis
sippi river from head of passes to the
mouth of the Ohio, S62B.000.
UNION IRON AND STEEL CO.
Will Resume the Manufacture of Colton
Ties.
Youngstown. O., Feb. 18.—It Is an
nounced that the Union Iron and Steel
company here will resume the manu
facture of cotton ties at once, and has
orders enough to keep the cotton tie mills
going for several months. No cotton ties
have been made at this mill during the
year. The same company's eight-inch
mill resumed yesterday, nfter an Idleness
of several months.
TEXAS STREET CAR STRIKE.
Galveston, Tex., Feb. IS.—The street
ua,' strike was adjusted tills morning on
the following basis: Men In the employ
of the company one year or longer are
to receive 10 cents an hour, and those In
th? employ of the company six months, 14
cents a-n hour. The company further
agrees to give the preference to union
men when employing additional labor.
The condruct between the men and the
company based on the terms stated, has
been signed and Is good for one year.
Immediately on signing the contract ser
vice was resumed on all lines.BIRMINGHAM STATE
HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1897
NUMBER 29
LEFT SWINGING IN THE 1
Was the International Arbitra
tion Treaty
AND SHERMAN MOURNS
Filibustering Tactics for Several Hours Finally
Succeeded
IN GIVING THE BILL ITS QUIETUS
Daniels, of Virginia, Makes a Masterly
Speech Imploring His Colleagues Not
to Bind This Country Hand and
Foot to John Bull.
Washington, Feb. 19.- -Tire open ses
sion of the senate today lasted for only
half an hour. Two conference reports on
pension bills were agTeed to, one giving
{50 a month to the widow of Gen. Stone
man, and the other {75 a month to Gen.
J. H. Stahl. Senator Daniel (dem. Va.),
was designated as the reader of Wash
ington's farewell address next Monday—
an observance introduced by Mr. Hear
some years ago when Senator Ingals, of
Kansas, was president pro tem., and he
was, as such, designated as the reader.
His splendid elocution has never been
equalled on a like occasion since.
Possibly the last of the “unreconstruct
ed rebctls” was pardoned today in the per
son of Col. D. E. Simms, of Kentucky,
the senate passing a bill to remove his
political disabilities.
At 12:30 o’clock the senate proceeded to
the consideration of executive business
(the arbitration treaty), and adjourned
without action on the treaty.
When the senate readjourned at 8
o’clock tonight, after a secret session of
seven and one-half hours it was apparent
to the most sanguine friends of the gen
eral treaty of arbitration with Great i
Britain that no vote could be secured at
this session of the senate. The fact that
the motion to postpone until March 5 had
been defeated by a vote of 30 to 20, afford
ed no satisfaction. On the contrary it
emphasized the fact that those fighting
the treaty intended there should be af
firmative action of no kind.
The debate proceeded In regular order
until 6 o’clock, when senators, tired of
the discussion and weary in body, left the
chamber and proceeded to their homes.
For two hours longer there was a dreary
succession of yea and na calls and calls
of the senate for the purpose of securing
a quorum, which no sooner found to be
present than It would disappear.
Filibustering was Indulged In with the
oM-tlme vigor, and when, after two hours
of this sort of thing, the call of the senate
failed to establish the presence of a quo
rum, a motion to adjourn prevailed, and
the treaty was left hanging In the air.
At the close of yesterday's session Mr.
Sherman gave notice that he should
today ask the senate to sit It out. The
contest began as soon as the doors were
closed, with considerable energy on the
part of the friends of the treaty, but they
soon wearied In their struggle with the
inevitable. Messrs. Lodge and Frye
spoke briefly, but with a great deal of
spirit, urging that the vote be taken this
afternoon. Mr. Ledge said there could
be no doubt but that every senator had
made up his m+nd how he should vote
and Rny further delay would be a waste
of time ond an exhibition of a desire to
prevent action of any sort.
The speech of Senator Lodge was an
effort to “shell the bushes" and It was
successful In driving into the open the
enemies of th? treaty. He was at once
confronted with a retort from Senator
Teller and Senator Stewart to the effect
that no vote could be had. Mr. Teller
then took the floor and spoke for an hour
against the treaty and against present
action^
In the course of his remarks Mr. Tel
ler said that he was not prepared to say
that he should not vote for the arbitra
tion treaty. He favored the principle
of arbitration, but the treaty had been
bungled and badly drawn and he believed
there should be ample time for its con
sideration. The more the treaty was
discussed the more prominent became
the objections that had been, made to it.
Mr. Daniels, of Virginia, made one of
those speeches, finished in ovatory and
rhetoric, for which he is noted. He ad
dressed the senate for upwards of two
hours and made a powerful impression.
He was against the treaty and advanced
some of the strongest arguments that
have yet been heard. War was not a
bad thine. Mr. Daniel said, when the na
tion that went To war had the right on
Its side, and was upholding the honor
and Integrity of its people. The United
States was the only eountry that Great
Britain feared and if she could put us
under bonds to keep the peace. Great
Britain would go ahead with her policy
of aggression and aggrandizement and
laugh at any protest that we might make
or defy any position we might assume
against the oppression of the peoples
of the western hemisphere. The Amer
ican people were a people of peace; the
policy of the country for a hundred and
twenty years had been one of peace. It
had arbitrated its differences time and
again and was pledged to that principle,
but when It went into a solemn compact
for that purpose with Great Britain there
should be an equality of terms. The
United States had everything to lose by
the treaty and Great Britain everything
to gain. The congress of the United
States had never declared war unless
war was justifiable; the United States
had never acquired any territory by war
unless as the result of a war that was
of defense or necessity for the perpetua
tion of the republic.
‘‘I love the blood' of the revolution,"
said Mr. Daniel, in one of his impassion
ed utterances. “It is full of all that Is
great and noble in the history of this
country."
Mr. Daniel then proceeded to show
that the lessons of the revolution ought
not to be forgotten and that the peo
ple of thcUnltedStatesshouldbe weary of
any overtures made to them by her tra
ditional enemy, Great Britain, speaking
though they do, the same tongue. Of all
the powers. England was the one the
United States should refuse to blindly
follow. It would be a sorry day for this
nation when Its hands were tied by an
agreement that gave Great Britain all
she asked and compelled us to keep quiet
In the face of the policy that that na
tion will continue to follow regardless of
any solemn pledge she may give.
During' fhe course of an analytical criti
cism of the provisions of the treaty, Mr.
Daniel said the rnen'.’jers of the supreme
court ought not to be designated as
rr.embers of the arbitration tribunal. He
favored the insertion of an amendment
that left the membership of that court to
the president by and with the advice and
consent of the senate.
The tkird and lost set speech of the
flay was made by Senator Li-'’-my, of i
Kentucky, who urged the ratification of
the convention and action today.
Mr. Lindsay spoke for almost one
hour, devoting the most of his time to
a refutation of the legal arguments ad
vanced by Senator Daniel, and others
who have, during this debate, taken the
ground that the senate was asked to yield
up Its prerogative, apart from the treaty
making power.
At the conclusion of Mr. Lindsay's re
marks, the effort was again made to se
cure a vote, but this effort was met by
motions to adjourn, which were Invaria
bly voted down or developed the absence
of a quorum.
Mr. Sherman pleaded In vain for an ad
journment for a day and. hour on which,
the vote might be taken. Every sugges
tion of his was objected to, and one
roll call continued to succeed another,
until finally it was Impossible to secure
a quorum. A motion was then made and
carried Instructing the sergeant-at-arms
to arrest absent senators and bring them
before the bar of the senate. While the
sergeant-at-arms was preparing his war
rant, the friends of the treaty held a
consultation which resulted in the mo
tion to adjourn by Mr. Gallinger. This
prevailed and without any notice on the
part of Mr. Sherman that he would again
call up the treaty, the senate at 6 o’clock
adjourned. It is not improbable, how
ever, that Mr. Sherman may make one
more effort to secure a vote.
IN THE HOUSE.
Another appropriation bill was taken
up in the house today, but little prog
ress was made.
The measure was that carrying appro
priations to supply deficiencies for the
current fiscal year and prior years. It
encounteied Its first snag, when Mr.
Glow (rep. Pa.) Insisted that he had a
right to speak as long as he wanted to
on It. This proposition was discussed for
some time, and resulted In e victory for
the venerable Pennsylvania member, who
devoted some extended remarks, not to
the appropriation bill, but to the Oklo
hama free homestead measure. Then a
long discussion was started by Mr. Rich
ardson (dem. Tenn.) over an Item to pay
special attorneys for defending suits
against the United States.
'Mr. Richardson wanted to know the use
of paying attorneys to defend such cases
when the judgments given agfilnst the
United States, particularly in claims
under the Bowman act, were never paid.
Many members spoke with regard to
the Propriety of paying the Bowman
claims, but when the afternoon was
nearly over the discussion was dropped.
The bill was not finished at 6 o’clock,
when the house took a recess for three
hours.
tMr. Sayers (dem. Tex.) gave notice that
he would offer amendments to the de
ficiency appropriations on behalf of the
Southern Pacific Railroad company.
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS.
Washington, Feb. 19.—The president to
day nominated to be postmasters: F. J.
Martin, at Meridian, 'Miss., and T. E.
Kenard, Longview, Tex.
ON SHIP AND SHORE.
The Naval Officers Were Royally Re
ceived by Charleston’s Officials and
Leading Citizens—Puritan In Port
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 19.—The festivi
ties in honor of Secretary H. A. Her
bert and the navy were continued this
morning, lasting throughout the day, and
are still in progress In the shape of a nav
al and military ball tendered by the city
to Its guests. The committee of citizens,
headed by Mayor J. Adger Smyth, and
made up of the leading men and officials
of Charleston, called upon Secretary Her
bert, his party and Admiral Bunce, at
the Charleston hotel, at 10:30 o’clock this
morning. The visitors were then taken
out for an extended drive, during the
course of which most of the historic
points !r. and about the city were visited.
At the conclusion of this sight-seeing
expedition the guests of the city were en
tertained at luncheon, at the residence
of Maj. George B. Edwards, where they
met the distinguished party of citizens.
The luncheon was scarcely over before
Mayor Smyth called officially upon the
secretary at the Charleston hotel. Car
riages were provided, 'and Mr. Herbert,
his friends, Admiral Bunce and his per
sonal staff were driven to the city hall,
where a public reception was held in the
council chamber. Secretary Herbert was
presented to Chairman Johni Grimbail, of
the reception committee, by Mayor
Smyth, and Mr. Grimbail welcomed him
to Charleston in a short and appropriate
address. Mr. Grimbail himself is a grad
uate of the Naval academy, being Ad
miral Bjince’s junior by one year. They
were at Annapolis together, but Mr.
Grimbail Joined the confederate cause
and fought gallantly on the cruiser Ala
bama. The reception continued for an
hour, and was attended by the officers
of the fleet, and hundreds of the most
prominent men and women of the city.
With a rest of three hours Secretary
Herbert, Admiral Bunce and the officers
appeared once more In public. This time
it was to be the specially honored guests
at a naval ball, given in their honor by
the people of Charleston at large. The
function, which is still in progress, is a
most Imposing and brilliant one. The
Invitations were limited to 500, and every
person who was sent one attended. Not
since ante-bellum days has an entertain
ment of equal magnificence been given
In Charleston.
The Puritan has arrived In port, and
will probably remain here eeveral weeks.
The Terror, Amphitrite and possibly the
Vesuvius will do likewise. The Dolphin
returns to Florida waters, and the big
cruisers and battleships will sail for Nor
folk tomorrow evening.
Tomorrow the festivities will continue
throughout the forenoon. The officers
will entertain citizens on their ships and
there will he numerous private luncheons
and breakfasts given on shore.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEAN'S RESULTS.
New Orleans. Feb. 19.—Very warm
weather prevailed today at the race track
and the going was still very heavy.
Favorites only won twice, and the 3.000
people present lost to the bookmakers.
First Race—Six furlongs. Martin, 103
(C. Reiff). 1 to 2, won; Bustup second.
Sir John third. Time. 1:21.
Second Race—Four furlongs. Sarmatia,
100 (Clay), 15 to 1, won; Onlnoor second,
Miss Hattie thlrjl. Time, 0:53%.
Third Race—Six furlongs. Hazard, 103
(Garner), 7 to 1, won.; Elkin second, Van
Essa third. Time, 1:24%.
Fourth Race—Handicap, six furlongs.
Helen Wren, 98 (T. Burns), 12 to 1, worn;
R. Q. Ban second* Van Brunt third.
Time, 1:21%.
Fifth Race—Seven furlongs. Renaud,
94 (T.. Burns), 4 to 5, won; Bizarre sec
ond, Glendaga third. Time, 1:39%.
RATHER YOUTHFUL SUlClDE.
Atlanta, Ga , Feb. 19.—A special from
Lawrencevtlle, Ga,, to the Constitution
says that the 12-year-old son of F. P.
Jackson committed suicide at his home
four miles from the town. The boy was
an invalid and a great sufferer. He fas
tened a trace chain around his neck and
to the limb of a tree. He stood on a
fence and Jumped off.
FIRE
TIL OF BLOOD AND
Left in the Wake of General
“Butcher” Weyler.
WHAT AN EYE-WITNESS SAW
Suffering Equal to That Now Existing in Plague
Stricken India
WITNESSED IN TOWNS AND VILLAGES
! Homes Laid Waste, Cane Fields Destroyed
and People Forced to Crowd the Towns
Without Food or Shelter—Some
of the So-Called Victories.
Key West, Fla., Feb. 19.—A passenger
arrived on the steamer iAransas this
morning who on reliable authority is said
to have come from an extensive trip
through the central provinces, Santa
Clara, Mantanzas and Havanna, and
gives the impressions of his journey in
the following terms:
The ruin and desolation were frightful
to witness, he said. The country being
bare and wasted, cane fields and planta
tions burned; no vestiges of the country
homes remaining except those stone
built, blackened walls only remaining.
Thatched huts were but heaps of ashes;
villages, towns and cities were partially
destroyed, but crowded with miserable,
forlorn people, with emaciated, hungry
looking, starving faces. They were all
huddled In small spaces, without commo
dities, with no hygiene, and suffering
from diseases of all description and dy
ing by hundreds daily. All this state
of things was brought about by Weyler's
brutal and inhuman decree ordering the
concentration of the country people into
the towns. Weyler, in his march through
those provinces, has left a trail of lire
and blood. Horrible stories are told
of the outrages and butcheries committed
under his direct personal orders. Such is
the terror he inspires that the mere fact
of his approach crea'tes consternation
and the alarm at once spreads to all the
people who rush to the nearest town for
protection. When, this gentleman left
Sanctl Splritus, Weyler was reported as
encamped near Caibarion, and expected
to arrive there that day. His forces
numbered 15,000 men and as he marches
without provisions the result Is that on
the road his soldiers sack all the stonts,
as happened at Santa Clara City, which
was left bare, with the natural result of
increased misery and starvation for the
poor people there.
Near Sanctl Splritus at a place named
Guayo, a column of Spanish troops when
passing last Friday, after killing all the
cattle, set fire to the buildings and
ranches and butchered the owner, a
planter named Ramon Napolea, a man
of independent means, well known and
esteemed In that district. This was re
ported as a rebel camp, captured and de
stroyed.
The same column found a party of reb
els lying in ambush and taken by sur
prise they only had’time to escape, after
a desperate fight in which a Cuban offi
cer, LieiJt. Perez, made a brave defense
against eight soldiers. He had to suc
cumb and was hacked to places with the
machete, after surrendering. Two other
Cubans perished. This was also report
ed as a great encounter In which the
rebel losses were numbered by the hun
dreds.
The result of this destruction and the
terrible atrocities committed by the
Spaniards has been the means of an In
crease of the rebel forces In great num
bers. All able-bodied men in these prov
inces are rushing to the Cuban ranks
and hundreds of families prefer to suf
fer hardships in the woods thaji misery
and starvation in the towns.
At the estate Gibacy, near Tunas, about
100 families were living in peace. When
ordered to move into town they at once
took to the woods. This is but a single
instance In hundreds of similar cases.
Meantime these shocking things on the
Spanish side only increase the Cuban
army. Scores are fconstantly flocking to
the rebels.
Aliv: CMUCIH O'lRilO VJL W CttlVIlCBa WHICH
Spain displayed by offering so-called re
forms have all the more determined the
insurgents to continue the struggle.
From reliable sources it Is leareed that
Gomez will now initiate a vigorous cam
paign. After arranging with the Cuban
government the plans and purposes of
his future movements Gomez ordered a
concentration of all the rebel forces pre
paratory to his advance Into the western
provinces. His first step was to send the
Cuban government back to Cubitas with,
headquarters in Camaguey. The party
started with an escort of 200 men and
successfully crossed the central trocha
Saturday night near the best protected
part of the line at La Redonda, under
the very walls of a Spanish fort.
This is another instance of the useful
ness of the Spanish trochas. Gomez’s
plans, It appears, are to sneak back
through Weyler’s line, and once on his
rear guard, commence his campaign by
attacking and destroying all the sugar
estates grinding against his orders. He
win also, It Is said, punish severely all
the local Cuban leaders who have toler
ated grinding within their jurisdiction.
Gomez’s exact location is unknown, as
he Is constantly moving from Remedies
to Sanctl Spiritus, watching Weyler’s
movements in order to seize the first op
portunity to outflank him. Weyler, as
customary, has had no engagement with
the rebels. He carries with him such a
strong body guard that no one cares to
interfere with his movements, and they
leave him to march along unmolested.
Carillo Is reported encamped with 15,000
nren near Finuieu, and Jose 'Miguel Go
mez, with about 2,000 men near the Tag
uasco farm.
This Is the nucleus of the rebel forces
operating around Sanctl Spiritus. Their
organization is perfect, they are fairly
well supplied with arms and munitions,
and they are complete masters of the field
to such an! extent that nothing enters
Sanctl Spiritus without a permit and the
payment of specified taotes to the revo
lution. Jose Valdivia, an American citi
zen residing near Sanctl Spiritus, form
erly a rich cattle rafter, has been ruined
by the Spanish troops. His cattle ranch
has been destroyed, the buildings burned
and all his cattle carried away by Span
ish troops, despite the: fact that he
showed his papers proving his citizen
ship. His protest was of no. avail. He
will now file a claim through the Ameri
can consul.
' BICYCLE VICTIM.
London, Feb. 19.—Prof. Wallace, pro
fessor of moral philosophy In the Uni
versity of Oxford, was killed today by
a fall from h'la bicycle, which fractured
his skull -
FRANCE SEEMS THE BROILER
Takes the Lead In Stirring Up
a Strife
AMONG THE GREAT POWERS
Lord Salisbury Comes Out Favoring Cretan
Annexation With Greece.
RUSSIA PROPOSES OPPOSITION
But the Brave Grecians Continne Prepara
tions Despite the Bark ot the Wolf.
Troops Prevented Prom Landing
In Crete—Other News.
Athens, Feb. 19.—The uroposals of some
of the European powers to take coerolve
measures against Greece to enforce their
prohibition of Greek action in Crete have
aroused fierce public resentment through
out the kingdom, and popular demands
that the government resist the action of
the powers at any cost are being made in
all quarters. The government, backed by
unanimous sentiment of the people, still
Insists that the Greek flotilla in Cretan
waters shall be allowed to act in accord
ance with the purposes for which the
vessels were sent. If the European
squadrons should prevent Greece from
acting against the Turks by sea, a revo
lution in Macedonia and Epirus is certain
to follow.
The attitude assumed by the liberals in
the British parliament in regard to Crete
is hailed with great enthusiasm here.
Greece has relied and still relies upon an
upheaval of free people everywhere in
her behalf, and this feeling ot confidence
in the sympathy of Europe generally goes
far towards explaining the defiant course
she has' taken.
The Greek cruiser Spezia, with full
cteam up, is lying in the Piraeus awaiting
orders to proceed to Cretan waters, and
advices from Macedonia say that all of
the principal bridges and roads in that
territory are mined in readiness to de
stroy them in order to prevent an ad
vance of the Turks.
d-Uld Jllil'UKT CUN* JKMiiD.
As to the Massacre of Two Thousand
Moslems by Christians.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 19.—The Austrian
vice consul at Herakllon. confirms the re
port of the massacre of 2,000 Moslems by
Cretan Christians at Scltia, on the east
ern extremity of the Island. Col. Vassos,
commanding the Greek forces in Crete,
has given orders to Ills troops to refrain
from molesting or giving offense to civil
ians and unarmed Moslems, and hqs
promised that the men, under his com
mand will show equal respect and ob
serve equal treatment to all peaceably
disposed persons.
The Greek consulate here Is onw be
ing guarded by Russian marines, who
will be successively relieved by marines
from other foreign warships. The Greek
consul withdrew' the Greek guards from
the, consulate in obedience to orders from
the admirals of the foreign squadrons.
The consul, in complying with the order,
protested that the admirals were exceed
ing their functions In taking such action
against him.
The Greek steamer Pan Hellenic, con
veying munitions of war to insurgents
in Crete, lias been stopped and turned
back by a British cruiser. The action of
the British vessel has created the fiercest
indignation here.
INDICATIONS OF A FIGHT.
Canea, Feb. 19.—Col. Vassos, com
mander of the Greek troops in Crete, has
mounted guns on the heights of Akro
tir, and is making preparations to cap
ture the Turkish fort at Voukolies. From
present indications, fighting is likely to
take place very soon, and the British and
Russian consuls have gone to Kelino to
endeavor to put a stop to hostilities.
AUTONOMY TO CRETE.
On Lines Similar to Samoa, With a Greek
Prince Seems Probable.
Constantinople, Feb. 19.—It is reported
here that Photiades Pasha, the provi
sional successor to George Berevitch
Pasha as Christian governor of Crete,
has declined to continue to discharge the
duties of that office and that Karatheo
dori Pasha will be appointed to the gov
ernorship of the island.
The Turkish squadron in Cretan waters
will consist nominally of nine Ironclads
and tw nty-five torpedo boats.
A report is in circulation here that
Lord Salisbury and the Marquis D1 Ru
dinl, the British and Italian ministers,
have recommended that the powers agree
to grant autonomy to Crete upon lines
similar to those upon which autonomy
was given to the island of Samoa, the
affairs of the Island to be administered
Under the rule of a Greek prince. Pend
ing the completion of the arrangements
Involved In this plan, the British and
Italian premiers' agreement permits the
continuation of the status quo in Crete.
DON’T ACT RASHLY
Is the Advice of the Powers to the Sultan
of Turkey.
London, Feb. 19.—In the house of com
mons today George N. Curzen, under for
eign secretary, said In answer to ques
tions that the porte had announced no
Intention to send troops to Crete. The
general advice of the powers to Turkey
was to abstain from precipitate action.
Detachments of marines from the foreign
warships, Mr. Curzon said, were now
occupying Oanea, Sitia. and Retlmo, and
It was probable that they would soon oc
cupy Cretan ports. In addition to this,
■the British. Russian and Italian consuls
had gone to Sellno for the purpose of pre
venting further outrages there and to
relieve the suffering Moslem families.
GERMAN NEWSPAPERS
Accuse England of ^Underhand Work
Favorable to Greece.
Berlin, Feb. 19.—The Noueste Nach
rlchten makes a violent attack upon
Great Britain because of her reported re
fusal to J-olra Germany and the other ac
quiescing powers in the proposal to
blockade the Piraeus. The- attitude as
sumed by England, the paper declares
has been the subject of a heated conver
sation between Count Von Hatzfeldt, the
German ambassador to Great Britain,
and Lord Salisbury.
The NatlonaJ Zritung says: Great Brit
nin is again pursuing a separate policy In
opposition to theinlercsts of the powers.
Whether England throws off her dis
guise and openly sides wJtb Greece or !
pursues her underhand policy, the pow
ers In either case ought to follow thetr
own course, opposing -with united front
any attempt to embrcdl Kurope.
DECLARES AGAINST GREECE.
St. Petersburg, Feb. 19.—Russia, It is
said, is prepared to bring about the for
cible expulsion of the Greek torpedo ilo
tilla from Cretan waters, the disarma
ment of the Greek troops in Crete and a
blockade of the Greek coasts if the Hel
lonlc government persists in Its impru
dent attitude. If Greece goes to war
with Turkey she will be left to fight her
battles alone.
SPIED THE RAT.
Athens, Feb. 19.—In the course of a de
bate in the chamber of deputies last ev
ening Premier Dolyannis stated that the
government was seeking to discover the
reason for the action of the powers In
opposing the operations of Greece in
Crete. As a result of their investiga
tions, he said, the cabinet had arrived
at certain conclusions, which, however,
he was not yet able to communicate to
the chamber further than to declare that
Greece would persist In her policy and
course of action.
THREE OF THE POWERS
Favor Cretan Annexation With Greece—
The Latter Continues Preparations.
Athens, Feb. 19.—A dispatch from
Canea states that three of the great pow
ers are in favor of a union between Crete
and Greece. It Is reported that King
George will appeal to the Hellenic race
for a great national loan to meet the ex
penses of the military and naval prepara
tions.
A British iron-clad has prevented the
steamer Junen from embarking pro
visions intended for the use of the Greek
troops in Crete.
The military preparations on the part
of Greece continue.
PREVENTED TROOPS FROM LAND
ING.
Paris, Feb. 19.—A dispatch from Canea
6ays that the British warships in Cretan
■waters have prevented the landing of a
force of rGeek troops which arrived there
on board the Greek warship Alphios.
The Matin, in an article on the Cretan
situation, says that Russia and Germany
alone favor the proposal to blockade the
Pieraeus.
SALISBURY FAVORS GREECE.
Constantinople. Feb. 19.—The report
that Lord Salisbury had sent a clrculaj
note to the powers, favoring the granting
of autonomy to Crete, with a prince of
Greece t administer the affairs f the
island, Is confirmed.
FRANCE’S ATTITUDE.
Paris, Feb. ID.—The Temps says that
the pwers are resolved to speak firmly
to the government at Athens, solely from
fidelity to the tradition that France and
Great Britain wish to exhaust all means
of conciliation before consenting to the
other measures so urgently demanded
by the courts allied to the Greek dynasty.
-o
FIGHTING GOING ON.
Moslems Demand Arms, Which Are
Given—Go to the Front.
Canea. Feb. ID.—The Moslems have
abandoned Vouooulls and have retreated
to Allklanos, where they are now sur
rounded. Fighting Is going on there now.
A crowd of Moslems marched today to
the military headquarters here and de
manded that they be furnished with arms
In order to relieve their comrades. Mar
tini rifles and ammunition were given
them and they marched out of the city.
Later fighting occurred on the hills near
the city, with no decisive results on either
side.
SERVIA MOBILIZING TROOPS.
London, Feb. ID.—A dispatch from Vi
enna to a. news agency says that the
government of Servia has decided to
mobilize the Servian troops and that
Prince Nicholas, of Montenegro has re
called officers of the Montenegrin army
who are now absent on leave.
FRENCH OFFICERS CALLED.
Brest, Feb. 19.—All the officers and men
of the French navy who are absent on
leave from thl3 station have been ordered
to rejoin their vessels without delay. A
detachment of men will leave the naval
station at Toulon tomorrow to rlnforce
the crews of the ships forming the Med
iterranean fleet.
MONEY THE THEME
On Which Wm. J. Bryan Will Lecture at
Carnegie Hall, New York City—
Vigorous Campaign to
Begin at Once.
New York, Feb. 19.—'William J. Bryan
Is booked for a speech here next Friday
at Carnegie 'hall. The subject of his dis
course will be "Money,” and its object
will bo to boom the bimetallic association,
which has just been formed.
The association purposes to elect the
president of the United States in 1900 on
the platform on which Mr. Bryan ran
last year. For the purpose of accom
plishing this a series of bimetallic educa
tional lectures has been arranged. Those
to be held at Carnegie hail will begin
■with Mr. Bryan's lecture on “Money.”
On Saturday evening Mr. Bryan will
deliver a speech on “Free Silver.”
The other speeches of the series will be
"The Famine of Gold,” by Francis New
lands, on March 5; “The Theory and
Practice of Bimetallism,” by Charles A.
Towtie, of Minnesota, on March 11, and
"Money and Commonwealth,” by George
Fred Williams, of Massachusetts, on
March 19.
THREE CONVENTIONS
Of Members of the Cotton Growers’ Ass®'
elation Called by President Hec
tor D. Lane.
Augusta, Ga., Feb. 19.—Hector D. Lane,
president of the Cotton Growers’ Protec
tive association, has called three conven
tions of farmers, the object being to cur
tail cotton production and to increase
food products.
He says farmers will be better off with
a seven million bale crop selling at 10
cents, supplemented wUh ample food
crops, than with a ten million bale crop
selling at 5 cents.
Conventions will be held at Waco,
March 8; Memphis, March 10, and at Au
gusta, March 15, for farmers cast of the
Mississippi valley.
WIFE MURDERER HANGED.
“Chicago, 111., Feb. 19.—Dan McCarthy
was hanged for the murder of his wife
today at the Cook county jail. The drop
fell at exactly 12 noon. The execution
was marred by no accidents and was
pronounced the best ever taking jHace in
the Jail. McCarthy was cool and collect
ed. It was expected that he would make
a statement on the scaffold, but he did
not utter a word. His neck was not
broker., and eight minutes after the drop j
fell he was pronounced dead.
WEEKLY REVIEW Of TRADE
Most Encouraging Is the Report
In All Features.
DEMAND FOR STEEL RAILS
Since ttie Break ^5-of the Trust Unprecedent
^ Jly Large.
NEARLY
MILLION TONS SOLD
One-Tenf w . Which Goob to Foreign Ports
—Hiu s Earnings Looking Up—
W y Market Encouraging to
Liberal Purchases—Failures.
New York, Feb. IP.—Bradstreet's to
morrow will say: General trade show3
more Improvement, features of which
are the advancis lor Bessemer pig iron,
steel billets, steel rails, some grades of
wool, raw sugar, Indian corn, pork and
lard and for cloths, with an upward ten
dency for leather, together with a num
ber of metal and textile industrial estab
lishments which have re-opened within,
the Weak, and an improvement in recent
railway earnings.
The demand for rails since the break
in quotations has resulted in the sale of
nearly 1,000,000 tons, of which 100,000 tons
are for export. Not the least significant
outcome is the demonstration of the abil
ity of American steel makers to success
fully compete in the markets of the
world.
There Is a better demand for dry
goods, clothing, shoes, paint, lumber and
architectural iron, but material increases
in request for general merchandise are
more conspicuous at Chicago, St. Louis
and New York than elsewhere.
The holiday on Feb. 12, while not gen
eral, had an Influence on transactions at
New York, Chicago, Philadelphia and
Boston and bank clearings for the six
business days ending with Feb. 19
ciiiiuuni uuiy 90i’£,v.L‘t,i#vu, utrunfttst: ut
5.G per cent compared with last week
and nearly 10 per cent, compared with
the third week of February last year.
The tendency of current gross railway
earnings is to increase and a majority of
reports of railway earnings for the sec
ond week of February show Increases.
Gross and net earnings for the year 1896
are In sharp contrast with those for 1890.
While promising well, the depressed
trade and political excitement had an un
favorable influence. But it is encour
aging to note that decreases from corre
sponding totals in 1895 are small both
gross and net. Total gross earnings of
142 railroad companies, which include
80 per cent, of our railroad earning e.a-.
parity, aggregated 1956,834.241 last year,
a decrease of one-flfth of 1 per cent, front
the total in 1895, while total net earnings
—8288,929,004—showed a .-.iinilar falling off
of 1,2 per cent. The southwestern, south
ern and Pacific groups of roads, report
increases, both gross and net, as com
pared with 1895.
Total business failures throughout the
country have Increased, numbering 325
this week, compared with 301 last week
and 276 in the third week of February,
1890.
DUN'S REPORT.
New York, Feb. 19.—R. G. Dun & Co.,
will say tomorrow in their weekly re
view of trade: A large increase in the
iron and steel business on account of
sales covering eight to twelve months’
production of the largest works, a better
dernand for woolen goods and slightly
better prices for cottons, a gain which
may prove lasting In boots and shoes;
slightly better prices for wheat, cotton,
wool and Iron, and a money market well
adapted to encouraging liberal purchases
against future improvement in huslness,
■have rendered the past week more hope
ful than any other since early in No
vember. The heavy excess of merchan
dise exports over imports In .January,
the continuance of exchange rates show
ing that Europe is still largely indebted,
to this country on current account and
the prospect that congress will adjourn
without any disturbing action, all have
their favorable Influence upon the money
market and upon further undertakings.
In nearly every branch, the great Iron
and steel industry feels the Inward Im
pulse) supplied by purchases of steel rails,
said to be half a million tons each from
other companies in part as low as $15
per ton, about 100,000 to foreign purchas
ers at $17 to $18, but all recent sales at
$20, at eastern and $21 at western mills.
Nearly all the great railroads of the
country have seized the opportunity to
suddIv themselves with rails for one or
two yeans requirements. These enor
mous orders have,advanced Bessemer pi©
at Pittsburg only 15c per ton, with gray
forge a shade lower there, and r.o con
siderable change appears in finished pro
ducts, although plates arc unchanged
In prices with good' demand and nails are
held at recent prices. The Car associa
tion no longer controls anything and Iron!
bars are quoted at $1.05 per 100 pounds,
while steel bars are quoted at 95c per
100 pounds. Structural forms are steady,
although 100,000 to 150.000 tons are said tof
be required ill New York alone this year
and American tin plates are still selling
at $3.20, which Is 70 cents less than the
price for foreign.
The sales of wools have sharply de
clined, amounting to 7,409,300 pounds for
the week, against 9,157,900 for the previ
ous week, but owing to the heavy trans
actions early In the month, the sales for
three weeks have been 30,130,900 pounds,
against 13.168,700 pounds last year. The
larger mills have acquired full supplies
for the present, and at any advance of
prices they appear ready to drop out of
the morket. The demand for woolen
goods does not seem to have expanded
materially, and no quotable change in
prices has appeared during the week.
The heavy exports in January, follow
ing the unprecedented excess of exports
over imports of merchandise in the four
previous months are largely due to the
fact that neither the wheat nor the cot
ton markets have been materially con
trolled by •epecula-.tlon.
Figures at this season do not count for
muedi in cotton, though large supplies
and diminishing domestic demand on ac
count of the partial closing of many
mills have materially lrfluenced the mar
ket. Prices have been comparatively
steady; middling uplands declining to 7c.,
but recovering an eighth.
The volume of business Is not accurate
ly reported by clearing house exchanges,
owing to the extra holiday thl3 year at
some commercial centers. But the dally
average appears to he S.-i per cent, smaller
than last year. The railroad earnings be
gin to show improvement, being 9.7 per
cent, larger than last year for the second
week of February.
Failures for the week have been 208,
against L’so last >car, and 53 In Canada
agaih~t Si last year.VOLUME
BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 18D7.-TWELVE PAGES. NUMBER '30
DEFIANCE OF 10 GEORGE
Has Opened the Eyes of Eu
rope’s Six Powets.
A WAR OF RIGHTEOUSNESS
In Which the Little Kingdom Is Now En
gaged Startles Europe.
ONLY ONE POWER OPPOSES GREECE
In Her Determination to Annex Crete—
Wilhelm of Germany the Stumbling
Block—Turkish Fleet Rotten and
Unsea worthy—Rhodes Bcanal.
London, Feb. 20.—(Copyright, 1897, by
the Sun Printing and Publishing Asso
ciation.)—The situation in the east at
length grows less obscure. There Is a
deadlock between the great powers re
garding the policy to be pursued toward
Greece. This d- adlock need not disturb
the friends of the Greeks and Cretans.
It makes for righteousness. It had its
origin In the new force which entered
into the situation just six days ago and
whifh now predominates it completely.
The domestic events of these few days
ire few and simple. The first acts of
war by Greece against Turkey called
forth the unanimous protests of the six
powers.
King George replied In a message of
virtual defiance. The German emperor
was so angered by this answer that he
cut off diplomatic relations with Athens
and Invited the powers to unite In a
blockade of the Greek ports. Great
Britain, France and Italy have refused
to approve the kaiser’s suggestion and
all for the same reason. Public opinion
in each country Is now almost unani
mously In sympathy on the side of the
Greeks and Cretans. This Is the new
force which controls the situation and
which Lord Salisbury, M. Hanotaux and
the Marquis D1 Rudini dare not disre
gard. One and perhaps two of these
in' i* aic luuuiji aunuji^u anu cmuai - ;
rassed by this new element In the prob
lem. M. Hanotaux, especially, l£ he
dared, would advocate drastic measures
against Greece to compel her to retire
from Crete. If he has the temerity to
do so in the chamber of deputies on Mon
day he will become a plain private citi
zen on Tuesday. Public opinion In the
three nations of Europe, where public
opinion reigns, has suddenly declared
a virtue superior to that of its rulers.
It has defeated and demoralized diplo
macy. I was about to add that It had
destroyed that hideous moral inquiry
known as "the. concert of Europe.” It
is more correct to say it has compelled
diplomacy to recognize the common prin
ciples of humanity. It is impossible to
overlook 'the fact now clearly revealed
that Lord Salisbury took warning only
just In time. There is no longer any
doubt that the British naval officers act
ed strictly according to their instruc
tions in threatening to use force against
the Greek warships If they attacked
Turkish vessels bridging reinforcements.
The outbreak of popular indignation
came so quickly In this country that the
gov rument in alarm tried to evade the
responsibility in parliament. There was
also an instant change of policy, Lord
Salisbury notifying the powers two days
later that England would not consent to
any plan which contemplated the return
of .Crete to any forms of Turkish control.
Italy today goes even further and offi
cially authorizes the announcement'that
"the powers will never constitute them
selves gendarmes of Turkey."
The German emperor stands almost
alone In unenviable prominence as the
advocate of a policy which is revolting
to every national impulse. He even went
so far yesterday as to notify the powers
that he would not consent to any settle
ment of the Cretan question which" did
no first compel the evacuation of the is
land by Greece. Kaiser William has done
many stupid, blundering things In dip
lomatic affairs during the past two years,
but never anything which aroused such
disgust as this, among 'his own subjects
and throughout Europe. It is difficult if
not impossible to harmonize his position
and Lord Salisbury’s. Hence the dead
lock. Russia’s attitude continues to be
a mystery, and Austria Is not as clear.
Russia, however, realizes fully that it Is
Impossible for hen ally, France, or for
jongiana to aery pudiic opinion, wnen it
has made Its decree so absolute as that
recorded this week. There Is no doubt,
therefore, that It will be the German em
peror who will bock down If the har
mony of the powers is to be preserved'.
The position of Greece seems now to be
Impregnable, morally and diplomatically,
and even physically. It would be the
highest political policy for the powers to
try to coerce her, even If every senti
mental impulse did not condemn it. She
could and probably would under such
circumstances set the Balkans in a blaze.
The issue of peace or war for Europe
would be In her hands. It is supposed to
be the supreme object of each govern
ment to preserve peace. They would
hardly be so stupid, then, as to leave the
decision to the little kingdom, which has
so much to gain and so little to lose by
war.
The reports grow more emphatic to the
effect that a revolution in Macedonia
Is Inevitable and that It is close at hand.
There is every incentive, therefore, to
settle the Cretan question as quickly as
possible, in order to be ready to deal with
the new emergency. The Impression
grows stronger that the sultan would
consent, under pressure, to complete the
autonomy of Crete. The question really
Is, whether the Greeks will agree to this
unless coupled with the assurance of the
eventual annexation of the island to their
country. There is a growing opinion to
day (hat the matter will be settled on
this basis. The chief necessity of the
moment is that somebody suppress the
bumptious German emperor. It seems to
have escaped the notice of the European
press that the present political minister
of Greece is the same M. Delvannls, who
represented the daring little kingdom at
the European congress which met at
Berlin at the conclusion of the Russo
Turkish war, nearly twenty years ago.
The decision of the congress blasted
the hopes of Greece then, as some of the
powers are Inclined to do now, but with
less reason. It was on the 20th of June,
1878, that M. Delyannls told the congress
that Greece bowed to the will of Europe,
In order not to risk disturbing European,
peace, but he continued, that it would
be to the interests of Turkey as well as
of Europe for Greece to take possession
of Crete, which was then Ire full revolt.
Crete could never be pacified by pallia
tives, and tT, Tne near future, unless in
dependence were granted, It would be
the ?&ene of bloody work.
kl. Delyannls then warned the assem
Wd representatives of the great powers
that Macedonia would also have to be
reckoned with. Greece, he declared,
could never view with Indifference the
struggles of Macedonia for freedom, and
in any case it would require an army
of at least 100,000 men to prevent Greek
volunteers from crossing the frontier
into Macedonia to help their brothers
In race and religion. Events have Justi
fied M. Delyannis In regard to Crete and
it looks as though Macedonia also would
prove his prescience.
The situation in eastern Europe, de
spite its gravity, has r.ot been with
out its humorous aspects, and chief
among these is the issue of the porte
of an order for the mobilization of the
Turkish fleet into two active squadrons.
Over here the joke is thoroughly under
stood and enjoyed, but it may not be so
generally known in America that ex
cept fbr a few small ships which a single!
United States cruiser could easily dis
pose of, the Turkish fleet consists of rot
ten old vessels which have been, anchored
for years In the harbor at Constantinople,
as inn money is available for repairs or for
the payment of officers and crews. It
is gravely estimated that it would take
months to accomplish one job alone, the
removal of barnacles from the bottoms
of this so-called fleet, and a period of at
least equal duration to scrape, clean and
oil the machinery. Furthermore, a ma
jority of the Turkish naval officers have
either committed suicide in despair of
obtaining the vast accumulations of un
paid salary, or tong ago retired into civil
ian obscurity from the same cause, while
the living accessible minority, owing to
lack of experience. Is incompetent to
navigate a ship of) any size. If the strug
gle should be a naval one, Greece would
win with consummate ease without out
side aid.
The committee of the house of com
mons appointed to inquire into Jame
son’s filibustering raid into the South
African republic, which has held two
sittings this week, devoted both to the
examination of the Rt. Hon. Cecil
Rhodes, the man who pulled the strings
from a safe distance. So far, Mr.
Rhodes’ examination has b-en conduct
ed by the liberal members of the commit
tee and nothing particularly new or sen
sational has transpired. The sensation
will come when Mr. Rhodes' friends, the
tory m-mbers of the committee, begin
to cross examine and afford him a plaus
ible pretext for divulging the particu
lars of the alleged anti-British Intrigues
carried on at Pretoria by England’s good
friend and Queen Victoria's grandson,
Kaiser Wilhelm. Whether Mr. Rhodes
has anything more substantial to go
upon than rumor and suspicion remains
to be seen. The general opinion is that
ho has tangible proofs. His friends say
he has a trunk full of compromising let
ters from the Kaiser to President Kruger
and other documents and that th se will
be produced at the proper moment for
rusuiiiig nit- maximum uihuuih ui enei'i
upon the Blntlsh people. Meanwhile signs
accumulated that the final struggle be
tween the Boers and British for predom
inance In the Transvaal will not be de
layed beyond the present ytar. Two
powerful forts have just been completed
at Pretoria, one commanding the north
ern and th~ other the southern approach
to the capital. Two more are in course
of construction and government military
engineers are now engaged on plans for
forts designed to dominate disloyal
Johannesburg. Moreover, within the
last few weeks a new alliance, offensive
and defensive, has been concluded be
tween the Transvaal and the Orange
Free State.
NATURAL GAS
By Exploding Shatters a Newspaper Of
fice and Injures Five People, Some
of Them Seriously.
Chicago, Feb. 20.—A severe explosion of
natural gas at 7 o’clock this morning in
the engine room of the Chicago Chronicle,
at 164 and 166 Washington street, badly
shattered the basement and Injured five
persons, some of them seriously. Pipe3
leading from the street sprung a leak
and the explosion was caused by ignition
from the electric light wires.
John McMillan, foreman of the press
room, was the most seriously injured and
his recovery is doubtful. He was blown
against a wail and badly burned. One
arm was so badly crushed that it will
probkbly have to be amputated.
Harry Hargrove, the engineer, was
blown thirty feet and badly injured in
ternally.
John Stenger, pressman, was seriously
burned about the face.
John Wheeler, driver for Case & Mar
tin, who was standing in front of the
Chronicle office, was blown half way
across the street and Charles Williams,
who was standing on the sidewalk over
the gas pipe, was blown as high as the
second story of the building and badly
Injured.
Matthews Beines, mailer, was badly
burned.
A lew minutes alter trie explosion
flames leaped through the basement
floors and consumed the business office
and destroyed the Western Union Tele
graph company's branch office adjoining.
All the wires leading to the office, in
cluding those of the United-Associated
Presses, were broken. The editorial
rooms of the Chronicle were flooded by
water and badly damaged by smoke. The
force of the shock from the explosion
broke every plate glass window in the
building and tore up the sidewalk in
front of the office. The wall separating
the press room of the Chronicle from the
Journal, was blown down, and the wa
ter from the fire engines flooded the
presses and damaged the large stock of
paper.
It is difficult to ascertain the exact
losses, as the firemen and police will not
allow reporters to enter the building,
owing to the frequent explosions of gas in
the basement. Horatio Seymour, pub
lisher of the Chronicle, estimates the
damage at $10,000.
A REMARKABLE CASE.
Savannah, Ga., Feb. 20.—It has just
come to light that a negro named Ma
jor Lee has served fifteen, years in the
penitentiary on conviction for murder
has never had a new trial which was
granted him by the supreme court on the
grounds that he is not guilty under the
evidence that was submitted in the case.
Lee was convicted in 1881, and the verdict
was contrary to the law and the evidence.
In the meantime Lee was sent to the
penitentiary and is there today, and has
never had his new trial. When sent up
he was a little 11-year-old boy. He is
now a big burly negro of 30. Solicitor
General Osborne, of the eastern Judicial
circuit, who has just come Into office,
took the case up and has insisted on its
being disposed of. I^ee was charged
with the murder of Elbert Lee, a white
man. but there was nothing but circum
stantial evidence against him. Judge
R. Falliga-nt, now on the superior court
bench, defended him, on which account
a Judge from an adjoining circuit will be
called down to try the case should there
be any attempt bo try It, which is Wot
probable.
HEAVY LOSS.
Wllkesbarre, Pa., Feb. 20.—The black
diamond breaker, operated by the Dela
ware and Hudson Coal company, located
at the east end of the city, was burned
this morning. Loss $80,000. Six hundred
men were thrown out of employment.
REVERSE OFJHE PICTURE
Spanish Victories Not So Plen
tiful as Reported.
A FIGHT IN SANTA CLARA
Which Resulted in Defeat for Castile With
Seven Losses.
HUNGER AND RAGING SMALL POX
Killing More People Than Spanish Troops.
Weyler’s Latest and Most Outrageous
Act—Ladies Imprisoned With
Filthy Whites and Negroes.
Key West, Fla., Feb. 20.—Every one
who goes to Cuba Is impressed with the
idea that a crisis has been reached in the
conflict for liberty, and when they return
here they are a little slow to express
themselves. This 1s particularly so of the
more conservative people who visit the
island. At the same time tt is from these
conservative people that the people gain
the more reliable Information.
Our correspondent was' fortunate In
meeting a gentleman who has been on
the Island for some time, and who has
visited the country in several provinces
in the past few months. He says that
the Cubans, commanded by Gen. Gomez,
and the government troops, under the
command of Gen. Segura, had a great
battle in Santa Clara district on Tues
day, which lasted eight hours. The In
surgents cut down the Spanish forces
first with artillery and then with the
machete, the Spaniards fleeing for their
lives in the greatest disorder. The losses
on both sides were heavy, the Span
iards losing the most men. The Cubans
captured all the ammunition, stores and
guns, Including four Held pieces, and
quantities of small arms.
He reports tnat tne country is in me
hands of the Insurgents, and that an
American citizen is safe outside the Span
ish lines. If an American is caught in
the country by the Spanish, it is worth
his life to show American papers, such
persons being punished by death on the
spot. The Spaniards live by plundering,
and have succeeded in devastating the
country wherever they have gone. The
result is that the army is facing a famine
crisis. If they go far into the country
they meet with insurgents, who cut them
up and take away flocks and herds they
may attempt to drive back to the city.
Consequently they are in danger of hun
ger, and worse, starvation. Smallpox is
also raging, one-fifth of the population
through the country either having died
or hawing been smitten with the dis
ease.
A great sensation and much excitement
has been created in Havana by the ac
tion of Weyler in casting into La Cassa
de Refugldas, or the “house of refuge,"
many prominent Cuban ladles, who are
suspected of sympathy with the insur
gents. In that house are kept negroes
and whites of the most degraded char
acter and these ladies from the highest
social and financial circles of Havana so
ciety are compelled to go into this dirty
hole with these vile wretches ns their
companions. But it is the edict of the
Spanish authorities and from that there
is no appeal in this city.
THE USUAL REPORT.
Of Insurrectionist Defeats and Spanish
Victories Continue to Come in.
Havana, Feb. 20.—The usual reports
of government victories over the rebels
were published today. General Hernan
dez Velasco, Ool. Recio and Cammander
Luis Lazo, of the Asturias forces, defeat
ed insurgent bands at Galalora, Luisa, and
Dayanigues, all of which places are in
the province of Finar del Rio.
The reports state that ten rebels were
killed in the three engagements. The
troops destroyed four prefectures, a hos
pital and sixty huts. Their losses were a
commander and sergeant wounded.
THE MAJOR AGAIN AT WORK.
Canton, O., Feb. 20.—Major McKinley
has recovered his health and in the
course of a week will be better and
stronger than ever. He put the finishing
touches in his inaugural address today,
and did a good deal of work of a public
and personal nature. He had one caller,
Senator J. C. Pritchard, of North Caro
lina. who came to suggest Col. James
Do-yd, of ibis state, for a cabinet port
folio. Senator Pritchard said he had a
satisfactory talk with the president-elect
and that the selection' of Mr. Gary would
doubtless deprive North Carolina of rep
resentation in the cabinet. Major Mc
Kinley thinks well of Col. Boyd, said
Senator Pritchard, and we are all of the
opinion that he deserves recognition for
the excellent work Ihe has done.
A FAVORABLE TRIAL.
Newport News, Va., Feb. 20.—The Wil
mington, one of three gunboats construct
ed at the ship yard here for the United
States government, went on her pre
liminary trial trip today and exceeded
her contract speed of thirteen knots an
hour by one and three-quarter knots.
Her builders and the government offi
cials are confident that when she makes
her official trip in Long Island sound
she will increase her speed of today at
least a quarter of a knot, which will en
title the constructors to a premium of
$40,000. The Helena will make a prelim
inary trip Tuesday morning, and it is
expected that she will exceed the con
tract speed.
LEXOW FAILS TO SHOW UP.
New York, Feb. 20.—Owing to the non
arrival of Senator Lexow, chairman of
the joint legislative committee, which
has been Investigating the existence of
trusts and monopolies in this st'ate, it
was decided by the members of the com
mittee present that an adjournment be
taken until Tuesday next. The absence
of several Important witnesses also in
fluenced the committee in. their decision
to adjourn.
STARBUCK WON EASILY.
New Orleans, Feb. 20.—The bicycle race
between Starbuck and Weinlg for $200 a
side came off promptly this afternoon
as scheduled and was won, by Starbuck.
Distance, five miles, unpaced. Time,
12:13. Starbuck won easily by one 'hun
dred yards. The weather was all that
could be desired, but the event attracted
only a very small crowd.
NEW TRIAL REFUSED.
Pittsburg, Pa., Feb. 20.—The applica
tion for a new trial in the libel suit of
Senators Mage^.and Flinn against the
Commercial Gazette was heard hv Judge
White today, and was refused. d!he case
will now be appealed to the supreme
court.
CRETAN UPRISING UPHELD
Senate Acknowledges the Justice
of the Cause
NOW AGITATING EUROPE
Hoar and Hawley Defend the Catholic Church
in America.
IT IS LAW-ABIDING AND PEACEABLE
And on on Equality With All Other Christ
ian Bodies—Discussion Graw Out of the
Indian Children Dilemma—Shiras
Scored by McMillin.
Washington, Feb. 20.—The Cretan up
rising against Turkey was recognized and
encouraged by the senate of the United
States today in the unanimous adoption
of a resolution offered in its intervention
to free the people of Crete “from the
tyranny of foreign oppressors, ami to
restore peace with the blessing of Chris
tian civilization, to that distressed is
land.’’
A bill which was passed by the house
last session, and which has been on the
senate calendar for sometime, author
izing the appointment of a labor commis
sion, was taken up today on motion of
Mr. Quay, and was likely to lead to a
long and animated debate, when Mr. Alli
son (rep. Ia.), chairman of the committee
on appropriations, Interposed with a mo
tion to take up the Indian appropriation
bill, and that motion was agreed to by a
majority of six, thus relegating the labor
commission bill back to the calendar.
The Indian appropriation bill was taken
up, and during Its discussion the de
cision of the supreme court In the income
tax case was brought In question. Mr.
Allen said: “Mr. Justice Shiras owes It
IV IIIC VWUI1U V IV ni*J W *1J PV dUUU 111,*
changed front on that subject. The
change was so radical and so extreme
that the man will go Into history under
a cloud unless he explains to the country
what motives Influenced him to change
hlr-i position on the Income tax cases.)”
The question of Indian schools came up
on the Item appropriating $1,200,000 for
that purpose, to which Item the commit
tee on Indian affairs had reported an
amendment as follows:
Of which amount the secretary of the
interior may In his discretion use $5,000
for the education of Indians In Alaska;
provided:
That the secretary of the interior may
make contracts with contract schools
apportioning as near as may be the
amount so contracted for among schools
of various denominations for the educa
tion of Indian pupils during the fiscal
year 1898, but shall only make such con
tracts at places where non-sectarian
schools cannot bp provided for such In
dian children, and to an amount not ex
ceeding Id percentum of the amount so
used for the fiscal year 1895; provided,
fuiithlr, that the foregoing shall not
appljf'to the public schools of any state,
territory, country or .city, or to schools
h-r in or hereafter specifically provided
for.
Mr. Lodge opposed the amendment as
something which would entirely undo
the work of last session In relation to
secctarlan Indian schools.
The policy of the new government had
been plainly declared In the bill of last
year, and was regarded as the true
American policy and that was that no
appropriation should be made for any
sectarian schools.
The amendment was defended by Sena
tors Hawley and Teller on the ground
that the sch'ools would have to be con
tinued for another year or the children
would have to be turnted away.
Mr. Gallinger sided with Mr. Lodge and
against Senators Hawley and Teller. In
the course of Ills remarks he said that
every church but one in the United States
refused to take money from the govern
ment for sectarian, education.
"What church does refuse to take it?”
Mr, Allen asked.
"The Roman Catholic church," Mr. Gal
linger replied. “I do not mean to ar
raign that church, but I am absolutely
Irrevocably and eternally opposed to vot
ing a dollar for education in sectarian
or religious schools.”
■jVlr. tiawiey ueienuttu uitf amniuuieiu
as “a little letting up” on the declared
policy of the government. He V'/as pot a
Catholic, he said; but It was a faith hon
estly held by aim Immense number of
people. It was a church of tremendous
organizing and executive power. The
two houses last session were a. little
merciful in the matter In permitting In
dian children to learn to read under a
Catholic priest for a little time, until oth
er schools could be organized. That was
all that was proposed in the amendment
—that the Indian children should not be
turned out of school; and in the meantime
that efforts should be made to establish
non-sectarian schools. He never had
such prejudice against Catholic schools,
and that 'he would prefer to see his child)
go there rather than to have him run the
streets as a loafer.
Mr. Pettigrew, chairman of the Indian
committee, defended the amendment and
declared himself "tired of the contempti
ble prejudice of the Indian Rights as
sociation.” *
Mr. Gillinger protested against such
a characterization of! "a great benevolent
association."
Mr. Hoar eulogized the Catholic church
for its adhesion to the constitutional
right of all Christian bodies to stand on
an entire equality before the law. He
understood that the leaders and the great
authorities of that church recognized
that policy. He had heard the eminent
pulpit orator who had just been called
to the h-ad of the great Catholic Uni
versity in Washington (Ur. Conaty) de
clare In a farewell speech to the people
of Worcester, Mass., where he had been
living for twenty-five years, his devo
tion to the authority and principles of
the constitution of the United States
and said that he owed his right to be a
Catholic and his right to advocate his
religious faith to the humane and just
provisions of the constitution of the
United States, which declared all Chris
tian bodies on an equality.
Mr. Allen ridiculed the idea of the pay
ment of denominational schools as a
union of church and state; and said
that, just as well might the payment of
a union general who rode In the storm
of battle at the head of his troops, and
who was a Catholic, be called a union
of church and state.
The bill was laid aside without action
on the school amendment unanimous
consent being given to have the vote tak
en on Monday at 1 p. m.
Aft-r a brief executive session the sen
ate adjourned at 5:30 p. m.
IN THE HOUSE.
When the house adjourned this afte -
noon it had finished the discussion in
committee of the whole of the general
deficiency appropriation bill, with the
exception of one paragraph, providing
for a payment to the Southern Pacific
• Railroad company. Three hours' debate
will take place on that item on Monday.
Most of the session was devoted to dis
cussing domestic affairs of the house,
"washing its dirty linen” as one m mber
put it.
An innocent-appearing paragraph ap
propriating some $12,000 to refund
amounts' deducted from the salaries of
members for absence, brought about a
family row, and, after a long discussion,
ft was retained, although many members
protested against it. Then the house
knocked out of the bill on pofnts of or
der, provision for payment of annua! sal-,
aries to its special employes on the
ground that they ware provided for the
session only. An attempt to secure a
month’s extra pay for ad employes of the
house, a practice frequently followed at
the end of a session, met with failure
also.
Just before adjournment Mr. Bartlett,
of New York, managed to get in a de
fense of the United States supreme court
for its decision in the income tax case.
Mr. McMillin (dein. Tenn.), who had
criticised Justice Rhiras last week for
his part in declaring the Income tax law
unconstitutional, made some remarks
that might have become sensational had
they been continued. He spoke of Jus
tice Rhiras as "that Individual,” and said
he was “glad he had got through his
thick hide at last.” The matter ended
with an agreement between Mr. Dai'zell
(rep. Pa.), and Mr. McMillin to discuss
the judicial conduct In the income tax
case pro and con, at a future day; and
the house at 4:22 p. m. adjourned until
Monday, after deciding that time was
too precious at this late period in the
session to keep Washington’s birthday as
a holiday.
SENATORIAL, CONFIRMATIONS.
The senate today confirmed ‘the follow
ing nominations:
Postmasters, North Carolina—Mary
Oreen, Warrenton; D. D. McIntyre,
Lattriburg.
South Carolina—O. W. S. Jenkins,
Beaufort.
Florida—W. A. Sloan, St. Petersburg.
Texas—Miss Ada L. Davis. Pilot Point.
A NASHVILLE SENSATION.
Nashville, Term., Feb. 20.—A sensation!
was creaitecl here today In Nashville’s se
•■=■01601 society by Mrs. Sallie T. Sawrie,
filing a bill of legal separation from her
husband, W. S. Sawrie. The defendant
is the leading wholesale broker in this
city, and is now at his orange grove near
Orlando, Fla. The wife charges that her
husband drove her from the luxurious
home in East Nashville more than two
weeks ago, and then left the city. The
deserted wife charges that the step-chil
dren were the cause of the estrangement.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
Fall River, Mass., Feb. 20.—The cloth
brokers of this city, when asked last ev
ening for the usual report of the we-k's
business In the local market, gave out
for publication only the amount of pro
duction and sales. Other figures were
withheld they said by request of the mill
men, who think that it interferes with
trade for printers and converters and
buyers in the marke t, to know the things
which the brokers have bren publishing.
It also has happened that when treas
urers have concealed direct sal s, the re
port of stock and sales has been inac
curate. «
BOTH IN CARSON.
Bob Fitzsimmons Arrives at Carson and
Becomes the Lion of the
i Hour.
Carson, Feb. 20.—Corbetts star was
partially eclipsed this afternoon when
Fitzsimmons' pink face shown from a
oar window on the Reno train. The
Cornishman was accompanied by Ernest
Roeber, Dan Hickey nnd Martin Julian,
the latter having met the party at Reno.
Holding his great dane dog by a strong
leash, Fitzsimmons led the crowd of sev
eral hundred to the Arlington, where he
usurped Corbett’s position as the greatly
adored.
"I suppose I will have to keep under
cover for a few days,” he Bald, “but that
mile running track will do me until the
ground is fit for road work. Roeber and
Hickey will keep me busy at present.
I hope Jack Stcnzeler will be here to
work with me a few days before the fight.
If he don't I will get another heavy
weight. Very little work will do me; in
fact, I am fit now, barring a few pounds
of beef.”
Hair an nour arter ms arrival Fitz
simmons visited Cook's ranch and looked
over the quarters, which he said suited
him exactly.
Corbett's work out this morning lasted
fifty minutes and he begged Woods and
MeVey to make it am even hour, but they
excused themselves. After lunch the
champion, trainors and apparatus were
bundled off to Shaw Springs. Jim and
Joe Corbett tested the new hand ball
court, finding it even better than they
expected. MeVey and Woods were call
ed In for thirty minutes, which terminat
ed the day’s training.
Outdoor exercise will be Impossible for
a week at least.
In his anxiety to match George Green
against a man of his class, Stuart today
agreed to alld,v the Californian $250 ex
penses to mtvt Joe Wolcott for a $3,000
purse. It is possible that the loser will
receive $500, but all that hinges upon
the decision of Tom O’Rourke, Wolcott's
manager, from whom Stuart expects to
hear hourly. Green will train with Cor
bett at Shaw Springs. Wolcott may
double with Fitzsimmons, but nothing
definite in this respect has been agreed
upon. The contest will take place the
day before Corbett and Fitzsimmons
meet. A few hours of sunshine glad
dened the hearts of all this morning, but
Fitzsimmons brought a flurry of snow
with him at 3:30 o’clock and an hour
later the storm was In full blast. Pre
dictions are at a discount, but old timers
are convinced that March weather will
be Iamb-like and balmier.
A dozen sporting writers from the east
flocked in with Fitzsimmons.
BILL RECONSIDERED.
And the Appropriation for Two New Ves
sels Cut Out.
Washington, Feb. 20.—The naval appro
priation bill will come to the house with
out provision for an increase of the navy.
This agreement was reached today, when
the matter of one battleship and one com
posite sailing vessel for the Naval acad
emy, recommended by the sub-commlt
tee, was reconsidered. After a general
discussion, a motion to strike out the In
crease provision was carried.
Those voting to strikeout were Messrs.
Boutelle, of Maine; Hulick, of Ohio; Hll
born, of Caillfornla; Bull, of Rhode Is
land; Wilson, of New York, and Dayton,
of West Virglna. Those against the
proposition were: ^lessrs. Iiall, of Mis
souri; Money, of Mississippi; Meyer, of
Louisiana, and Howley, of Indiana The
bill was then reported to the house by
Mr. Boutelle.
The Only One Opposed to the
Annexation of Crete.
OFFERS'* TWO PROPOSALS
$ _
c
One Fcr^^nediate Cessation of Hostilities By
Greece.
THE, fyTHER REFUSES PROTECTION
By King George to the Christiana—Rus
sia's Ruler Also Warns Greece to
Cease War Preparations—Cretans
Vote for Union with Greece.
Canea, Feb. 20.—A small force of Brit
ish, Italian and French marines are oc
cupying the town of Sitia, on the eastern
extremity of the island, where a few days
ago 2,000 Moselmens were massacred by
Christians. Quiet has been restored in
the town, and the presence of foreign
marines is regarded as an assurance that
no further disorder need be feared. Host
ages have been and are still being ex
changed by Christians and Moslems, and
both sides show a readiness to accept
European arbitration.
Jn the town ot Kenmo, however, dis
order still prevails, and the Moslems con
tinue to pillage the houses of Christians.
The various consuls at Retimo have
asked that more warships be sent there
to restore and preserve order.
The Insurgents, who are occupying the
hills hack of Canea, sent a w arning yes
terday of their intention to attack the
town of Akrotlrl. To this notice Admiral
Canevaro, commanding the combined
fleets, sent a reply giving the insurgent
leaders to understand that the foreign
warships would Intervene at the first sign
of atack on the part of the Insurgents.
All the provinces of Crete have voted
in favor of union with Greece. This fact
has been communicated to the various
consuls by Greek representatives.
THE CZAR’S MANDATE.
Warns Kiftg George to Cease War Pre
parations—Danger of War Over.
London, Feb. 20.—A news agency dis
patch from Paris says: The Russian
agency here asserts that the Czar has
sent an autograph letter to the king of
Greece warning him to cease Greek pre
parations for war. The dispatch adds
that the foreign diplomats in St. Peters
burg are confident that in consequence
of the accord of tlhe powers, all danger
of war is over.
WILHELM'S PROPOSAL.
Berlin. Feb. 20.—The semi-official North
German Gazette published what is be
lieved to be an inspired article on the
Cretan question* say a that Germany is
willing to negotiate with the other gieat
powers concerning the future of Crete,
hut only on two conditions, the flrst of
which Is that the island must not be
annexed to Greece and the second that
Greece’s present action must be stopped
before the negotiation's begin.
COMPLETELY EXONERATED
Were the Officers of the Brooklyn For
the Accident to That Vessel.
Washington, Feb. 20.—The findings of
the court of inquiry appointed to investi
gate the circumstances under w hich the
cruiser Brooklyn recently went aground
in the Delaware river, has submitted its
findings to the navy department, which
completely exonorates all the officers con
cerned.
After summing up the evidence In the
case of the Brooklyn, the court finds:
That the grounding of the United
States steamer Brooklyn, on the date and
at the place mentioned in the precept,
was not in any respect due to faults or
negligence on the part of any of the of
ficers or crew of said vessel; but that
the commanding officer was fully justi
fied in proceeding down the river at that
time, and that neither he nor any of the
officers or men under his command failed
in any particular to perform their full
duty. In the opinion) of the court no fur
ther action Is neceessary.
The department has approved this
complete exoneration and nothing furth
er will be done.
ENGLAND STANDS ALONE.
Berlin, Feb. 20.—The National Zeltung,
in an article referring to the circular note
sent to the powers by Lord Salisbury
favoring the granting of autonomy to
Crete under the administration of a
prince of Greece, asserts that Great Brit
ain stands alone In the matter. Italy,
the paper says, adheres to the other
powers and will act in accord with them.
ANOTHER VIEW OF IT.
Paris, Feb. 20.—The Matin says It has
good authority for asserting that the
powers will accept Lord Salisbury's pro
posals to grant autonomy to Crete,
though Germany alone may oppose such
a course.
SOUTHEASTERN LEAGUE
Raises tihe Necessary Funds and Elects
a President.
Charleston, Feb. 20.—The directors of
the Southeastern league held a meeting
here today and elected J. G. Bloodworth,
of Atlanta, president to succeed R. C.
Bosche. The necessary money for all
the league cities has been raised and th«»
season will be opened on April 12.
Savannah’s representative failed to
reach the city in time for the meeting.
Augusta was represented by Sam Mey
ers, Macon and Columbus by James
Smith. Atlanta by Judge Bloodworth,
and W. T. Meyer. The proposition to
consolidate the Southern and Southeast
ern leagues was rejected. The schedule
for the season’s games will not be adopt
ed until March 1. The meeting adjourn
ed subject to call of the president.
FINAL DECREE RENDERED.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Feb. 20.—A final
decree wa^. rendered tonight in the con
solidated eases against the East Ten
nesse Land company by United States
Appellate Judge Severan?, of Michigan,
presiding for Judge Clark, disqualified.
The decision of the court is the property,
consisting of 100,000 acres of unincum
bered' land and city property, manufac
turing sites, etc., will be sold to satisfy
the bonded indebtedness, $1,000,000 in first
mortgage bonds, held by the Central
Trust company, and prior liens securing
unpaid purchase money. The Harriman
Manufacturing company was virtually
declared an illegal if not a fraudulent
corporation.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2S, 1897.
NUMBER 31
WILL PERFORM ITS DUTY
Greek Blood and Treasure For
Her Honor
AND LIBERTY FOR CRETE
Hellenic Peoptehta Temper to Welcome War
at Any Cost.
INEXCUSABLE ACT OF CHRISTIANS
Fire Upon a Flag of Truoe Displayed By
Consuls of the Great Powers — Stir
ring Debate In Parliament and
the German Reichstag.
Athens, Feb. 22.—The indignation caus
ed by the bombardment yesterday of the
Insurgent position near Canea by the
foreign warships has increased and the
action of the powers is denounced on
every hand as a gross outrage and a
wanton disregard of the rights of Greece.
A very largely attended indignation
meeting was held today, at which strong
protests were made against the inter
ference of the powers', who, it was declar
ed, were putting their right against
Greek right. The speakers vehemently
asserted that the country was now more
firmly resolved than ever to spend its
blood and treasure for Crete.
Prime Minister Delyannis addressed
the meeting. He declared that the cabi
net was in perfect accord with the na
tion. The government knows its duty
fully and would perform It in face of
every obstacle.
The audience was carried away by the
war-like words of the speakers who were
frequently interrupted by cries for war.
There is no denying the fact that the
whole Hellenic people are in a temper
which would make war welcome, even
against overwhelming odds. They are
determined to uphold Greek rights and
honor, and will persist in helping the
Christians in Crete, notwithstanding the
attitude of the powers in supporting the
Turks.
It is reported that Col. Smolentz, min
ister of war, has resigned.
M. Skonzes, foreign minister, visited
the foreign ministers today and protest
ed against the bombardment and the
consequent encouragement of the Turks.
It is stated that several Christians were
killed or wounded by the shells fired by
the foreign warships and that great
havoc was done to property.
One hundred Turkish prisoners, includ
ing several officers, are in the camp of
Col. Vassos, the commander of the Greek
army of occupation.
Korakas ,a Greek, at the heaxl of 5,000
Cretans, has invaded the town of Harak
lion. He has cut the water supply and
has summoned the place to surrender,
promising protection to those who do so.
Eight hundred Turkish troops will
leave for Heraklion and Canea tomor
row. The transport conveying them will
be conveyed by British and Italian cruis
ers to prevent interference with them
by the Greek warships.
AN INEXCUSABLE ACT.
Christians Fire Upon the Foreign Con
suls Who Had Displayed a
White Flag.
’ Canea, Feb. 22.—The British, Italian
and Russian consuls, who recently went
to Sellso to inquire into the situation
there, returned today bringing with them
170 Mussulmans who feared to remain in
the town.
The consuls state that they were un
able' to negotiate with the combatants
who were resolved to fight to the end.
Both sides, Moslems and Christians, re
fused to be hampered with prisoners,
and therefore masacred all their enemies
who fell into their hands.
Two thousand civilians and 250 Turkish
troops, with three guns are still holding
Selino against the Christians, but their
position is critical. When attempting to
approach Canea the consuls were fired
upon by the Christians, despite the fact
that they were bearing a white flag. The
Christians had been advised of their ar
rival. and this made their firing on them
all the more inexcusable, as they could
not plead that they thought their carry
ing off the white flag was a trick on the
part qf the Moslems.
As they returned to Selino the Chris
tians there fired on their boats. Nobody
is reported to have been injured.
Greek troops have sa"Ved the lives of a
number of Mussulmans who were cap
tured by the rebels at Kisamo Kastele.
Sixty Turkish soldiers who escaped
from Von Koulis, which place is now in
the hands of the Christians, have arrived
here.
The insurgents at Haiepa have again
hoisted the Greek flag, but have not re
newed their fire on the Turkish posts,
which are about 1,600 yards distant from
_lhe town.
GERMANY’S ATTITUDE.
Desires Only to See a Satisfactory Settle
ment of the Difference.
Berlin, Feb. 22.—In the relchstag today
the government was Interrogated as to
the attitude of Germany In the matter
of the situation In Crete. Baron Mar
schall Von Biebersteln, minister of for
eign, affairs, replied that the first task of
Germany In Crete would be to secure the
restoration of peace in the Island and
remove the danger of war which had
been created by Greeoe’s rupture of the
international Ia\y. Germany, he said,
had no direct interest in the orient. (Ap
plause from members of the right.) She
was mainly interested In the preserva
tion or the peace of Europe. The powers,
be added, would now endeavor to put a
stop to an extension of hostilities and ob
tain a satisfactory settlement of the dif
ficulties in Crete. He was not in a po
sition at the present time to communi
cate to the chamber the character of the
diplomatic negotiations In progress, but
he would assure the house that G-rmany
was responding to the demands of Justice
and harmony.
Continuing Baron Marschall Von Bie- 1
bersteln declared It to be Imperative that
occupation of the island of Crete by
Greece should be promptly suppressed.
Tha Integrity of Turkey, he said, would
certainly be upheld by the powers though
some measure of autonomy would be
granted to the Island.
NUNS INJURED BT BULLETS.
Canea, Feb. 22.—It was learned tonight
that fifteen Christians were slightly
wounded during the bombardment yes
terday. The nuns In a convent adjacent
to the insurgents' position were Injured.
The Greek warship Hydra lauded sur
geons and obtained permission to cm
bark the wounded. It is stated today
that the fortr fired on the insurgents
concurrently with the foreign warships.
ANARCHY INCREASING
In the Island of Crete, and the Powers
Asked for Instructions.
Paris, Feb. 22.—A dispatch was receiv
ed at the ministry of marine today from
Admiral Pottier, commanding the French
warships off Canea, island of Crete, in
which he says that anarchy is rapidly
Increasing in the island, and the foreign
admirals are agreed and have so in
formed their respective governments
that they cannot longer be answerable
for avoidance of conflicts unless they are
authorized to prevent Greece from land
ing provisions and the powers compel
Greece to withdraw her troops and war
ships.
Admiral Pottier also says that before
the firing of the foreign warships began
yesterday the admirals made repeated
protests to the insurgents against their
attacking tju? town of Canea. The in
surgents, paying no heed to the protests,
advanced upon the town, whereupon the
British, German, Austrian and Ruslan
warships opened fire and continued a
bombardment of the insurgents’ position
until the Greek flag was lowered.
HARC^URT FOR FREEDOM.
Advocates terete Being Separated From
the Ottoman Empire.
London, Fob. 22.—In the house of com
mons todajf Mr. La Bouc.here, radical,
moved to adjourn with a view of avoid
ing discussing the situation in Crete and
the motion was seconded by Mr. John
Dillon, the leader of the Irish national
nartv.
Right Hon. J. A. Balfour, first lord of
the treasury and the government leader
in the house, opposed the motion and in
the course of his remarks said that there
was absolute unanimity among the pow
ers to avoid war. When they saw tlhe
masters of the collossal armies of Eu
rope moved with the deepest anxiety lest
war should be declared, surely it was not
for autif.nrlties upoh international af
fairs like Mr. La Bouchere and Mr. Dil
lon to say that such fears were Illusory.
(Cries of Oh, Oh.)
The united forces were responsible for
peace and the naval action which they
took at Canea yesterday was forced upon
them in the interests of peace.
Mr. Balfour expressed hope that de
bate on Mr. La Bouchere’s motion would
stop where it was, as it would not serve
the interests of Europe, nor would it
benefit Greece or Crete.
Sir William Harcourt, leader of the op
position, said that the country ought to
know whether the government were act
ing upon- -their old formula, the integrity
of t'he Ottaman empire, and if they were
doing so, he protested against it. To
detach Crete from the rule of the Turk
was the only policy worthy of Great
Britain, and he hoped that such a policy
would be pursued. The liberals in the
house of commons, he declared, would
continue to protest against any other
policy until the emancipation of Crete
was accomplished. To take up arms
against a people who were rightfully
fighting for t-helr freedom would not be
tolerated by the country.
Prior to the introduction of La Bou
chere’s motion to adjourn, Mr. George H.
Curzon, under foreign secretary, stated
that the proclamation issued by Col. Vas
sos, commanding the Greek troops in
Crete, had promised peace to the inhab
itants of the island. So far, however,
the presence of the Greek troops in Crete
had had an opposite effect and it was ex
tremely unlikely that the poyers would
delegate Greece the duty of keeping
peace between the Moslems and the
Christians in that island. The interna
tional squadron, he declared, had no op
tion but to forcibly prevent the insur
gents from making an attack upon
Canea, as they had done yesterday.
(Cries of ’-’Oh,” and “Shame.”)
Mr. H. Campbell Bannerman, who was
secretary of state for war in the minis
try of Lord Roeeberry. asked that the
house be furnish -d with a copy of the
instructions which had been given to the
admiral commanding the British war
ships at Canea and said that the house
would be glad to know whether his in
structions bound him to do anything
which the concerted European powers
directed.
Mr. Balfour said h- would inquire
whether the instructions forwarded to
-the British admiral could be produced.
He would say, however, that the admiral
was not bound to act with the other
powers against his own Judgment.
Sir Charles Dilke, liberal, said that
the Gre-ks had reason to believe that
Great Britain had twice led the concert
of Europe to prevent them getting what
they would otherwise have obtained. The
feeling of the country, he declared, was
almost unanimously on the side of the
Greeks.
Mr, La Bouchere's motion was rejected
by a vote of 243 to 125.
-O
NO GREECE, NO CROWN
Would Be tl>e Inevitable Were George to
Draw Back.
London, Feb. 22.—Tihe Athens corres
pondent of the Chronicle telegraphs that
Greece will instantly declare war If the
Turkish troops give provocation. He
adds that it would be Impossible to ex
aggerate the intensity of national feeling.
Greece cannot and will not draw back.
If she did there would be neither a crown
nor a government in twenty four hours.
The correspondent admits that the op
position In the Greek parliament is part
ly answerable for the war-like demon
strations.
The Daily Mall has a dispatch frsm
Athens stating that the German legation
there is guarded by marines.
The correspondent revives the story of
the massacre of Mohammedans at Sitia
despite the denials given to it. Peasants
who have arrived at HerakHon declare
that 1,147 were killed through treachery.
AN INDECISIVE ENCOUNTER.
Vienna, Feb. 22.—A dlBpatch received
here from Salonica states that an inde
cisive encounter between Turkish Redifs
or reserves and Greek troops has taken
place at Naschlldza, on the Greek front
ier. About ISO men were engaged on each
side. .
A TERRIBLE RECORD.
London, Feb. 22.—A dispatch to the
Central News from Constantinople says
that official reports from Crete say that
the total number of Moslems, men, wo
men and children who have been killed
during the present troubles in that island
is over 27.000 and that twenty-five Moslem
villages have been pillaged and burned.
ITALY TO TAKE THE REINS.
Paris, Feb. 22.—The Gaulcls says that
the powers have agreed to entrust to
Italy the authority to pacify and ad
minister* the affairs of the Island of
Crete pending the establishment of con
stitutional autonomy of the island.
GREEKS TOOK NO PART.
London, Feb. 22.—The Greek charge
d'affairs here gives out the statement
that no regular Greek troops took part
in the attack made upon Canea yester
day. The Greek troops, in obedience to
orders, he says, abstained and will con
tinue to abstain from all hostilities to
ward foreigners In Crete.
NUMBER OF GREEK TROOPS.
Constantinople, Feb. 22.—The porte has
obtained information that the total num
ber of Greek troops now in Crete is 3,
000. Photlades Psha has again been of
fered the governorship of Crete, and
has finally accepted the position.
AN ATLANTA SENSATION.
Otis Smith, Prominent In Social Circles,
Short Several Thousand Dollars.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 22.—Otis Smith, a
young man, prominent in social circles
here, has been under arrest in a private
office on South Broad street for three
days. He is short in his accounts. The
estimates of his shortage range as high
as $12,000. He is cashier of the Georgia
Security and Banking company and is
a member of the firm of H. L. English &
Co. H- has admitted being short $2,500
to the Security and Banking company.
This is not a regular banking institu
tion. Its funds are invested in real es
tate and the money which Smith appro
priated was Interest on purchase notes.
He also touched H. L. English & Co.,
and H. L. English individually and the
Brooks Lumber company, of which he is
secretary. It is charged that he got
several hundred dollars from the Atlanta
Traction company a few years ago when
he was bookkeeper. A warrant was is
sued against him today charging him
with embezzlement.
STRENUOUS MEASURES PROPOSED.
Baltimore, M. D., Feb. 22.—A meeting
of trunk line representatives of the Joint
Traffic association will be held in New
York tomorrow, when t'he question of the
Norfolk and Western’s Cumberland Gap
rates cutting will be considered. It is
believed that the meeting will try to in
duce the Norfolk ana Western to with
draw Its reduced tariff, and failing in that
will recommend that a fast freight line
operated over the Baltimore and Ohio,
Pennsylvania, and Chesapeake and Ohio
be authorized to meet the cut of the
former, thjp other Joiqt traffic line pro
rating the loss sustained by the reduc
tion. If the latter course is adopted it
is believed that it will prevent a general
rate: war.
REPORTS FROM HAVANA.
Consul General Lee Has Not Called for a
Naval Demonstration, But Friction
Exists Between Him and the
Spanish Authorities.
Washington, D. C., Feb. 22.—It is said
at the state department that Consul Gen
eral Lee, who Is investigating the Ruiz
affair, at Cuanababoa, Cuba, under orders
of the department, has not yet reported
the result of hts inquiry; also that there
is no truth in the report that Gen. Lee
had no-tilled the deportment that he
would resign unless the administration
should support him with a naval demon
stration in Cuba.
There has all along been some friction
between the Spanish officials in Cuba and
Consul General Lee whenever the latter
was obliged to intervene in favor of ar
rested American citizens. This has
grown out of a radical difference in con
struction placed' upon the organic law.
The state department has instructed
the consul general to insist upon his right
to have arrested Americans released at
the end of a period of detention of seven
ty-two hours, or else that they be con
fronted with formal charges.
But on occasions when the consul gen
eral claimed this privilege for an impris
oned American citizen the Spaniards,
from the captain-general down, set up
the plea -that in times of strife like this
the civil code was suspended and with
it the privileges claimed.
The state department has consistently
disputed this plea, because to concede
the soundness of it would be to renounce
all right to protect American citizens in
a disturbed fcountry.
It is said that the Spanish officials are
at no pains to take notice of an appeal
based on American citizenship nor to
report the fact that 'they have arrested
an American citizen to the American con
sular offictrs.
High officials of—the administration
say that it is not at all likely that the
case of Dp. Ruiz will lead to interna
tional complication. The matter was
brought to the attetqtion of the state de
partment the latter part of the past
week through complaint of some of the
friends of the doctor in this country.
The allegation was that the man had
been Imprisoned, beyond the period al
lowed by treaty for an American citizen.
to.be kept in Jail without the lodgment
of charges and that he had been mur
dered by his jailors.
Consul General Lee was at once direct
ed by cable to investigate the affair al
though It appeared from his dispatches
that he had already had his attention di
rected to the case. The official reports
of the SpanlBh officers are said to show
that Ruiz committed suicide while In
Jail, but this has not yet been communi
cated to the department of state. Mean
while Consul General Lee Is Investigat
ing the matter, and the State department
Is awaiting his report.
In the absence of this, the department
officials feel no apprehension of any com
plications and all stories that warships
have been called for by Gen. Lee or that
this government Is making ready to take
forcible measures In -the case are with
out foundation.
FOUR LIVES LOST.
The Charred Remains Found in the De
bris of a Burned Building.
Hannibal, Me., Feb. 22.—Four people
lost their lives in ithe Are which destroyed
the dry goods store of"M. M. Marks, at
3 o'clock this morning.: The rooms above
the store were occupied by the MarkB
family and a number of lodgers. The
flames had gained considerable headway
when discovered. In the ruins were
found the bodies of Proprietor Marks,
his two young sons, Irvin and Harold,
and William Reed, a barkeeper, who
roomed on the second floor. Reed loat
his life by returning for his clothing af
ter he had made a successful escape from
the building. Fire loss $10,0000.
ARCHBISHOP THOS. L. GRACE.
St. Paul, Minn., Feb. 22.—Archbishop
Thomas L. Grace-died at St. Thomas
hospital this morning. He was at one
time bishop of this diocese, but on ac
count of failing health, was succeeded by
Bishop Ireland. When the latter was
an archbishop. Bishop Grace was made
archbishop .-of a titular archbishopric in
Europe.
WARM WEATHER MEN MEET.
Charleston, Febr 22.—The advance
guard of delegates to the seventh annual
meeting of the Southern Ice Exchange,
which assembles here tomorrow, arrived
today. A-tdl o’eleekthe ice men will be
welcomed to the city by Mayor Smith,
and the vlsitftrs will be taken for a
visit around the harbor. The business
sessions will not begin until Wednesday.
About 160 delegates to-the convention are
on the ground tonight and some fifty oth
ers are expected tar arrive tomorrow.
Nearly everyt, large dAty In the south 1b
represented. ■
''Wtr
WASHINGTON'S NATAL DAY
Appropriate Exercises by Regents
of the White Shield.
| _
'UNIVERSAL OBSERVATIONS
Both in America and Foreign Capitals Was the
Day Remembered.
SOCIETIES OF GREATER NEW YORK
Have Elaborate Spreads—Too Wot at Wash
ington For Outdoor Demonstrations.
London, Paris and Berlin Re
sound With "Dixie.”
Notwithstanding the very Inclement
weather a fair audience gathered in
Beals’ hall, on First avenue, last night, it
being the occasion of the celebration of
the anniversary of Washington's birth
day by the Regents of the White Shield.
An elaborate programme had been pre
pared for the occasion, but several num
bers were omitted, as the participants
were unavoidably absent.
The numbers were given as follows:
"Come Where My Love Lies Dream
ing"—First Baptist choir.
Recitation—Story of a Faithful Sou!—
Miss Alice Davis.
Piano Duet—Misses Eva Daley and
Bessie Cox.
Song—"The Star Spangled Banner”—
Master Tommie Dozier, with piano ac
companiment by Mrs. Seif.
Vocal Duet—“Two Merry Girls”—
Misses Alice Fallon and Berta E. Hayes
Comic Song—"The Bam Yard Song"—
Mr. J. X. Thomas.
White Shield's Opening Ode—The
entire audience, led by the First Baptist
choir, with cornet accompaniment by
Mr. Claude Seals.
Patriotic Oration—Gen. Fred S. Fergu
Ron.
, “Come Where the Lilies Bloom”—First
Baptist choir.
Soprano Solo—"The Patti Waltz Song-”
~-Miss Alice Fallon.
Double Quartette Selection—West End
Glee club.
Concluding Remarks—Commander G.
F. Hart.
White Shield’s Closing Ode—“Good
Night”—Miss Berta E. Hayes.
Benediction—Mr. JameB Vinson.
The appreciation of every number was
Shown by the frequent applause. The
First Baptist church choir was most
.pleasing in all of its numbers, especially
in “Come Where the Lilies Bloom.”
Miss Alice Davis but added to her repu
tation as a leading elocutionist in her
selection and delivery of the pathetic
“Story of a Faithful Soul.” '
Misses Cox and Daley were at their
best in their duet and were compelled
to repeat K.
if Master Tommie Dozier did remarkably
well in his patriotic song.
Misses Fallon and Hayes, both in
their solos and duets, sustained the repu
tation they so richly deserve. Especially
^as this so in the "Two Merry Girls,”
Patti's Waltz Song and Good Night, the
closing ode of the White Shield.
Mr. J. X. Thomas was inimitable in
his comic selection, and the West End
Glee club gave evidence of excellent
musical talent.
Gen. F. S. Ferguson, in his pq^lotic
oration, was most pleasing and forceful.
Unwritten and long forgotten historical
events bearing upon the life and times
of George Washington were recalled in
his most entertaining manner.
The stage was tastefully decorated
with the national flag and paraphernalia
of the Regents of the White Shield. Con
spicuous in the center of the large organ
was the charter of the Regents, draped
in mourning. The decorations were un
der the direction of Mr. Wilbur F. Jones.
THE CITY GENERALLY.
All the city school buildings displayed
the national colors in honor of Washing
ton’s birthday. The banks were closed,
the day being a national holiday.
IN GREATER NEW YORK
The Day Was Observed by All the So
cieties—Toasts of Southern Society.
New York, Feb. 22.—Patriotism' was
manifested In the observance of Wash
ington’s birthday in and about the
Greater New York. The national flag
from .the public buildings and from
Innumerable business structures and
private houses. Business was generally
suspended, and the day was given over
to ceremonies, parades, drills, sports, lec
tures, imtertainments, dinners and recep
tions, to meetings of all kinds by patri
otic societies, military organizations, po
litical, religious, educational, civil and
athletic associations'.
The day was noted for the meetings,
dinners and private receptions given by
members of the various patriotic socie
ties, the Daughters of the Revolution,
the Empire State society of the Sons of
the Revolution, the Colonial Dames of the
State of New York, the Daughters of the
War of 1812, the Mayflower descendants,
the Colonial club, the Washington
Heights Society of Children of the Amer
ican Revolution, the Southern society,
the Loyal Legion, the Grand Army of the
Republic and the Nanonal Guard regi
ments.
Hugh S. Thompson presided with the
Southern society dinner. About 175 mem
bers of the society and their guests were
present. Among the more prominent
were George Gordon Battle. Rev. Alex
Carson, S. M. Inman and Col. R. H. Sav
age.
There were four toasts responded to, as
follows:
“Washington,” Theodore Roosevelt;
"New York and Greater New York,”
Seth Low; "What the South Wants,”
Richard M. Venable; and “Some Southern
Ideals,” John Fox, Jr.
The members Joined in singing “Dix
ie,” and other southern melodies between
the addresses.
AT THE NATIONAL CAPITAL.
Wet Weather Prevented Outdoor Ex
ercises, Bujt All Societies Observed
the Day.
Washington, Feb. 22.—Wet weather
prevented any extended outdoor celebra
tion of Washington’s birthday In this
city, but exercises-of different sorts were
held under the auspices of various or
ganlzaitions, patriotic, social and others,
during the day and others In progress
tonight.
During the morning the rain fell in a
most depressing manner and throughout
the day the Bky has been overcast and
threatening all the time to break. The
inclement weather had little effect on the
attendance in halls and churches.
One of the regul^ features of the cele
bration of the day in this city is the
meeting of the Association of Oldest In
habitants of the District. This was held
this morning at the headquarters of the
association, and the programme included
the. reading of Washington’s farewell ad
dress.
The day was also marked by the open
ing of the sixth continental congress of
the Daughters of the American Revolu
tion, which is to be in session through
the week. Th~ Sons of the American
Revolution and the Children of the Amer
ican Revolution also arranged to cele
brate the day.
THE DAY IN PARIS.
Paris, Feb. 22.—The big flags of the
American embassy and consulate-general
were out today, and red, white and blue
bunting was displayed from many Amer
ican houses, both in the business and
iestdential quarters; but the event of
the day was the second dinner of the
season given by the American University
club at the Hotel Continental this even
ing. Some sixty or seventy persons were
present, representing over a score of uni
versities ond colleges. The new British
ambassador, Sir Edmund Monsoni (Ox
ford) presided, and spoke to the senti
ment, “Washington and the Mother
Country." *
BRILLIANT AFFAIR IN LONDON.
London, Feb. 22.—Washington's birth
day was celebrated by the Americans
in London by a brilliant reception at
the Hotel Cecil. Ambassador Bayard,
Mrs. Bayard and their daughter received
about 300 guests, Including Lieut. Com
mander Cowles, naval attache of the
embassy, and Mrs. Cowles, Col. and Mrs.
'Taylor, Mr. Welcome, president of the
American1 society, and Monsieur D. Con
way. After the reception supper was
given.
IN BERLIN, TOO.
Berlin, Feb. 22.—Ambassador Uhl and
Consul-General De Kay attended a dance
given tonight at the Kaiserhof, In honor
of Washington's birthday. A fine mu
sical selection was rendered, including
well-known American airs.
TOO MANY BURGLARS.
Birmingham Just Now S«ems Infested
With a Large Number of Th in—
More Police Protection Needed.
Just at this time there seems to be not
one but dozens of house breakers infest
ing this city and the number of houses
broken into and reported at police head
quarters is becoming alarming. Not only
men, but women are Implicated in the
nefarious business and it is essentially
necessary that immediate st-ps be taken
to arrest them in theli*' mad career of
crime or the outrages and even murders
of a few years ago will again be repeat
ed within the city limits.
MAYOR EVANS’ RESIDENCE.
Yesterday morning Mayor Evans tele
phoned police headquarters that some
time during the night his residence, cor
ner of Seventh avenue and Twemty
fourth str- et, had been entered and the
pockets of his son’s pantaloons relieved
of $40 and a pistol.
ONLY A PIECE OF CLOTH.
While the family of Mr. P. Cosmlnsky
were at supper on Saturday evening, a.
negress entered the yard, at the corner of
Third alley and Sixtenith street, and
walking up to a window of the kitchen
in full view of the family, snatched a
piece of cloth from a chair and ran off.
UNUSUALLY BOLD.
Last night about 7:45 o’clock an un
known wh^te man entered the residence
of Mr. Jones, on Sixth avenue, between
Twenty-first and Twenty-second streets,
and attempted to rob the house. The
servant girl heard ;some one at the
front door. When she opened it the man
covered her with a pistol. She began to
scream “Help!” "murder!” “fire!” "po
lice!” etc. The girl could have been
heard for six blocks away. Her screams
attracted many people. Mr. and Mrs.
Jones ran out in the hallway where Mrs.
Jones fired one shot at the would-be-rob
ber, The man became frightened and
fled. It is said the man appeared at the
house about an hour before the occur
rence. He was in his shirt sleeves and
asked if any one would give him a
coat. It was raining very hard at the
time. The girl was so frightened that
it was almost impossible to get a descrip
tion of the man. She said he had a light
mustache and could not describe him
any further.
Police officers arrived at the scene in a
short time. Up to this writing no ar
rest has been made.
MONEY AND CLOTHING TALK.
An unknown thief entered the room of
Mr. A. L. Pool between Thirty-third and
Thirty-fourth street and Avenue F Sun
day night and carried off a pair of pants
in the pockets of which were $4; a pair of
shoes, shirt, hat and overcoat. Mr. Pool
said all at the windows to the house were
fastened down except the one at the foot
of his bed and the burglar must have
entered through that and crawled over
his feet. He knew nothing of his loss
until in the morning, when he found him
self minus his Sunday paraphernalia.
TO BECOME AMERICANS
Capt. Paul Gilardoni’s Brother and Fam
ily and Four Others Come From
Italy to Make Alabama
Their Home.
On Saturday last there arrived In this
city Mr. Louis Gllardoni, wife and three
children and four males, all direct from
Lombardi, Italy. The first named Is
Capt. Paul Gilardonl’s only brother, and
their meeting after a separation of
eighteen years was hearty and affec
tionate.
Capt. Paul Gllardoni has purchased 170
acres of land in the North Lake neighbor
hood, excellently adapted to fruit and
grape culture, and his brother will move
there as soon as suitable houses can bo
built.
DEATH'S RECORD.
WILLIAM T. THOMPSON.
Huntington, W. Va., Feb. 22.—Judge
William T. Thompson, ex-treasurer of
West Virginia, died here last night.
Judge Thompson was a shrewd demo
cratic politician and has frequently been
mentioned for governor of this state.
One year ago Judge Thompson had a
costly vault erected for his remains,
claiming that he would die in 1896, he
had an Inscription put on the vault to
that effect, and this caused much com
ment at the time.
A. A. WAT.IHIN.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 22.—A special from
Washington to the Constitution says
that A. A. Walihln died there today. He
was prominent in' iMasonlc circles. He
was a major in the confederate army.
II HONOR OFWASHINGTON
His Farewell Address Is Read in
the Senate.
CLEVELAND AGAIN SCORED
This Time Because of His Penny Wise and
Pound Foolish Ideas.
ONE^-NT LETTER RATE
PROPOSED
By ^ad, of California— Deficiency Appro
>5 ations Finally Pass the House—Pa
cific Railroad Ghost Again Disin
a
terred in Discussing an Item.
Washington, Feb. 22.—The annual sena
torial observance of Washington’s birth
day by hearing his farewell address read
by one of the leading elocutionists of the
senate, took place today in the presence
of a large audience. Mr. I>anlel (dem.
Va.), being the reader chosen for the oc
casion. i
The remainder or the day was occu
pied in the consideration, of the Indian
appropriation bill, which was not con
cluded at the time of adjournment.
Another of President Cleveland's vetos
of private pension bills drew out from
several senators a rather virulent con
demnation of the president. Mr. Morgan
(dem. Ala.), contrasting the small aggre
gate amount of all the private pension
bills passed at this congress with the
large sum paid to “the bond syndicate,"
and Mr. Gallinger (rep. N. H.), charac
ized such vetos as trivial and foolish.
The veto was referred to the committee
on pensions.
Just on the eve of adjournment for the
day the Loud bill (to amend the postal
laws) was reported back from the post
offlee committee by Mr. Candler (rep. N.
H.), with amendments including one for
one cent letter postage. The bill and re
port were antagonized by two populist
senators—Butler, of North Carolina, and
Stewart, of Nevada. There is no chance
of definite action upon it during this con
gress.
A resolution was adopted fixing the
hour of meeting on and after Wednes
day next at 11 a. m. The senate at 6 p.
m. adjourned.
IN THE HOUSE.
A few weeks ago only the house was
the scene of a prolonged debate full of
bitterness and personal accusation con
cerning the Pacific railroad refunding
bill. Today another opportunity for a
display of temper and recrimination on
the same subject was given ir/ the con
sideration of a paragraph In the deficien
cy bill appropriating $1,300,000 to pay a
Judgment of the court of claims in favor
of the Southern Pacific, but the matter
was considered in a raither dignified man
ner with merely a suggestion of feel
ing; Mr. Sayers, (dem. of Texas), led the
opposition to the appropriation, taking
tlhe ground that the Southern Pacific
controlled the Central Pacific road and
should not be paid any money while the
latter stood so deeply indebted to the
government. The house, in committee of
the whole, refused to strike out the para
graph in question, .and also declined to
make pome minor amendments designed
to curtail the benefits conferred by the
bill on the Pacific railroads. Later on
Mr. Sayers endeavored to have the de- !
flcleney bill sent back to the committee
on appropriations with Instructions to
strike out the Pacific railroad paragraph,
but was defeated in a yea and nay vote.
T!he deficiency bill was passed with few
changes In its provisions. The appro
priation of $12,000 to refund to members
sums deducted from their salaries for
absence, was eliminated as were likewise
Items providing for the payment of an
nual salaries to the special employes
conceded the democrats by the majori
ty.
A conference report on the bill ap
propriating $250,000 for closing the crev
asse at Pass A1 'Outre, La., were pre
sented and agreed to.
Mr. Boutelle, the chairman of the na
val committee, succeeded in getting up
the naval appropriation bill before ad
journment aind after he had explained Its
principal provisions, considerable prog
ress in Its reading was made before the
end of the day’s session, which came at
5:20. No exercises In celebration of
Washington’s birthday took place in the
house.
in ms explanation oi ine navai appro
priation bill, Mr. Boutelle referred to
the armor plate question, and told how
the committee had arrived at Its con
clusions regarding the plate.
Congress had provided at Its last ses
sion that no contracts should be made
for armor for the three battleships then
authorized until the secretary of the
navy could Investigate and make a re
port on the cost of manufacturing armor.
That report had been adopted at this
session, and the committee on naval af
fairs, by providing that the total cost
of armor for the three ships would not
exceed $400 a ton, had followed the re
port. It was fair to say that the man
ufacturers of armor plate did not agree
with the secretary’s conclusions. But
the secretary said he had given his best
Judgment, and the committee, without
attempting to fix the price themselves,
had most wisely accepted the report of
the secretary of the navy, as coming in
the nature of a departmental estimate.
Concerning the action of the commit
tee In leaving out an appropriation for
new ships, Mr. Boutelle explained that
the omission represented In no possible
sense any laxity on the part of the com
mittee. They had done so out of con
sideration of the national finances, pri
marily out of consideration of what It Is
believed to be the present temper of tho
house, and on nccount of the inabilty to
obtain armor for the three battleships
now on the stocks.
SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE.
Reports Favorably an Appropriation for
Improving the Warrior River.
Washington, Feb. 22.—The senate com
mittee on commerce today made a num
ber of additional favorable reports on
amendments to the sundry civil bill as
follows: For the construction of a me
morial bridge across the Potomac from
Washington to Arlington and fixing the
limit of cost at $600,000; making available
after April next the appropriation of
$400,000 for the improvement of Cumber
land Sound, Georgia and Florida; provid
ing for a survey Into the feasibility of
the Improvement of the Warrior river,
Alabama.
AUSTRIA TAKES A HAND.
Vienna, Feb. 22.—Five warships sailed
from Pola to Canea Saturday. The pow
ers have agreed that the granting of au
tonomy to the Island of Crete must be
preceded by a complete cessation, of
Greek interference in the Islam!.BIRMINGHAM
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA.,
STATE HERALD.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1897.
NUMBER 32
ANOTHER VERSION GIVEN,
Insurgents Claim to Have Been
the Aggrieved.
FORCED TO SELF DEFENSE
After Two Days of Unceasing Firing By the
Turkish Troops.
LOOKS LIKE IT IS A GREEK VICTORY.
Autonomy for Crete with a Greek Adminis
trator, May Be the Decision ot the
Powers— Kins George Urges His
People to Keep Cool.
Canea, Feb. 23.—Great excitement was
caused here last, night by smart rifle fir
ing to the westward of the town. It was
soon learned that the firing was taking
place between the Turkish outposts and
Christian insurgents, and the report
spread that the outposts had been driven
back and the insurgents were approach
ing tihe town. Crowds of residents went
to the ramparts of the city and anxiously
watched the outcome of the fighting. The
firing ceased in a short time without
either side having gained any material
advantage, or, so far as known, causing
any casualities.
A Turkish warship in Suda bay and
the soldiers in the arsenal there today
flred repeatedly at the village which
was shelled Sunday by the foreign fleets.
There was absolutely no reason for this
attack except that the Turks were de
sirous of provoking an occasion for fur
ther intervention on the part of the pow
ers. A white flag was flying over the
position occupied by the insurgents, but
this did not prevent the tiring. The In
surgents, understanding probably, the
Turks, did not return the fire.
The leaders of the insurgents who were
shelled Sunday have made through the
Greek commodore a formal protest
against the action of the foreign ad
mirals. They declare In their protest
that in acting in obedience to the pow
ers they refrained from actual hostilities
against the Moslems as long as it was
possible, but the Turks having shelled
their positions for two days, they were
finally compelled to reply to the fire. The
protesters ask whether the powers are
determined to allow the Turks to destroy
the Christians in Crete like they did the
Armenians in Anatolia.
KING GEORGE'S PROCLAMATION.
Urges His People to Remain Cool—Hel
lenic Honor Will Be Preserved.
Athens, Feb. 23.—The entire country is
• in a state of Intense anxiety and unrest
over the situation and there is the wild
est speculation as to what the final out
come will be. The people are deeply in
censed against the powers for their Inter
vention in Crete and their attitude Is
causing some apprehension In court and
government circles.
King George today Issued a proclama
tion that is intended to cool the popular
passions and thus avert what might
prove a national crisis. He enjoins the
country to be calm and dignified and to
confide' in the government, which, he
savs, is doing everything possible to up
hold the honor of Greece and maintain
the rights of the Hellenic people.
RIGOROUS BLOCKADE
Kept Up by the Fleets of the Powers—
Transmission of Letters Prohibited.
Athens, Feb. 23.—A dispatch to the
Asty from Canea says that the foreign
warships are now rigorously blockading
the coast of Cret~. The British tor
pedo boats are especially active, rapidly
stekamlng along the coast and keeping
a sharp lookout to prevent the landing of
troops, provisions or munitions of war.
Many vessels have been stopped by the
blockading, and they are not allowed
to proceed until satisfactorily proved
that they were engaged in legitimate
business.
So strict is the blockade that the carry
ing of letters to the Piraeus from the
force of Col. Vassos, the commander of
the Greek army of occupation, is pro
hibited.
-o
A GREEK ADMINISTRATOR
For Crete Will Be the Probable Agree
ment Adopted by the Powers.
Vienna, Feb. 23.—The Fremdenblatt
says that the powers are on the verge of
an agreement as to the method to be
pursued to restrain Greece from further
hostile action in Crete and to settle the
future administration of the affairs of
the Island.
Lord Salisbury’s proposals favoring the
granting of autonomy to Crete under the
administration of a prince of Greece, the
paper says, virtually has been adopted
by the powers.
DEMAND OF THE POWERS
That Greece Withdraw Her Troops From
Crete—A Journey Deferred.
Vienna, Feb. 23.—According to dis
patches received here from Athens, this
morning, representatives of the powers
made a demand upon the government of
Greece today for the withdrawal of Greek
'*■ troops from the island of Crete.
It was the Intention of Emperor
Francis Joseph to have started for Cape
Martin for a season of recreation yester
day, but in view of the still unsettled
state of affairs in Crete, the emperor has
deferred his departure until next Sunday.
AUTONOMY PROPOSED
As a Basis of Settlement—Turks Sending
Munitions to the Front.
Constantinople, Feb. 23.—It is announc
ed here that the Cretan difficulties have
been settled upon a basis of autonomy
for the island, the porte nominating a
governor of Crete under assent and ap
proval of the powers. In view of the pos
sibility that Greece will oppose such ar
rangements large quantities of munitions
of war are being hurried to the Greek
frontier and the Turkish troops there are
being rapidly re-lnforced.
ARMENIANS AGAIN PERSECUTED.
Turks and Kurds Seize Everything in
Sight—Anarchy Prevail**
London, Feb. 23.—The Standard will to
morrow publish a dispatch from Con
stantinople saying that anarchy pre
vails in the disturbed districts of Asia
Minor. The Turks and Kurds have seiz
ed everything belonging to the Armeni
ans. They compel the latter to plough
their own fields for the benefit of their
despoilers. AM who retain a remnant of
property are squeezed by the tax col
lectors to the uttermost farthings. It
is reported that the Reverlsts are har
rowing the country and not the slightest
check Is put upon their outrages. They
recently sacked the bazaars at Payas, In
the Vilayet of Adana.
THE ITALIAN COMMANDER
Gave the Signal For the Bombardment
of the Insurgents at Canea.
London, Feb. 23.—In the house of com
mons today Right Hon. George N. Cur
zon, parliamentary secretary to the for
eign office, said, In reply to an Inquiry
upon the subject, that the signal for the
bombardment of the insurgents position
at Canea was given by . the Admiral
Canevera, of the Italian navy, as com
mander of the united fleets, by reason of
seniority.
A. J. Balfour, first lord of the treas
ury, replying to the request made yes
terday by Sir William Harcourt, that the
instructions given to the British admiral
at Canea be laid before the house, said
that he was compelled to decline to com
ply with the demand as It would be Im
politic to do so?
ACTIVE PREPARATIONS
Being Made by Emperor Francis Joseph
of Austria for War.
London, Feb. 23.—The Paris correspond
ent of the Chronicle telegraphs that the
Austrian war office Is making every nec
essary preparation for the mobilization
of the forces. The work proceed? day
and night. Emperor Francis Joseph
spends hours every day wi.h his military
advisers. The correspondent adds that
the sailing of five Austrian warships yes
terday from Pcla for Canea is regarded
merely as a precaution, but that war is
not thought to be improbable.
A STATEMENT DENIED.
London, Feb. 23.—The statement of the
Paris Gaulois, that the powers had sum
moned Greece to evacuate Crete within
twenty-four hours. Is denied.
FIGHTING ON SUDA BAY.
Canea, Feb. 23.—Fighting has been go
ing on all day on Suda bay. No details
have been yet received.
WITH A PROVISO.
Paris, Feb. 23.—The GauloiS asserts
that the powers have called upon Greece
to vacate Crete within twenty-four
hours, and that Greece has consented to
do so provided autonomy of the island
is guaranteed.
A "WEEK'S ARMISTICE.
Crete, Feb. 23.—The foreign consuls
have persuaded the Moslems and Chris
tian combatants in the Selinos district to
agree to a week's armistice.
A FINE SPEED RECORD.
Newport, News, Va., Feb. 23.—The gun
boat Helena, constructed at the ship
yard here, made, a trial in the bay this
afternoon and developed a speed of fif
teen knots, exceeding the requirements
by two knots. The increase over the
Wilmington, which made a preliminary
trip last Saturday, was a quarter of a
knot. The Helena’s propeller is of a
different pattern from that of the Wil
mington. The weather was favorable
for the test and her machinery worked
perfectly. If the Helena equals her per
formance of today when she makes her
official trip she will earn her builders a
bonus of $40,000.
HELD UP AND ROBBED.
Motjrman’s Experience With Two Ne
groes at the Corner of Avenue F and
Twentieth Street—After Them.
Shortly after 12 o'clock last night
Charles Tyler, an extra motorman, was
held up and robbed on the corner of
Twentieth street and Avenue F, by two
negroes in the full glare of the electric
lights. He was relieved of $6.20 in cash,
his badge and watch.
Tyler, who is an extra, was In charge j
of car No. 10, on the cemetery line, and
had just turend his car inlo the car barn.
He left the barn to go to his boarding
house on Avenue F, a few blocks away.
When he reached the corner of Twen
tieth street two negroes halted him and
proceeded to take everything they could
find. After being robbed he was told to
move on and the negroes took to their
heels In an opposite direction. Tyler re
turned to the car barn and reported his
losses to the night foreman who notified
Capt. Wier.
Officers Brizendine and Cole were sent
out to the scene of the robbery with the
dogs to make an effort to strike the trail
of the negro desperadoes. Up to the
hour of going to press no Important clue
had been discovered.
Tyler says that he would be able to
Identify the negroes and furnished a very
good description of both of them.
IS HE THEMAN?
A MississlppiOfflcer Identifies Thrash
er Meade, But Afterward Hesitates
—Heavy Rewards Offered for
the Right One.
As mentioned In the State Herald at
the time, Will Clarke, alias Thrasher
Meade, a negro who Is supposed to be the
much wanted Mississippi postofflce safe
blower, was arrested here and placed In
the county Jail. The negro Is very close
mouthed and refused to say anything
concerning himself.
An officer from Mississippi was in the
city yesterday for the purpose of identi
fying the negro. As soon as he saw him
he said, "That is the man we want,” but
the longex he scrutinized the prisoner the
more perplexed and doubtful he became.
The Identification was not complete nor
satisfactory and Meade will be given a
hearing before one of the United States
commissioners today.
\lthough the officer became somewhat
mixed on his man, he thinks that the
local officers have secured the long-look
ed for criminal.
The various rewards offered for
Meade's arrest and conviction will
amount to over $2,000, and it looks as if
the Birmingham officers will get it.
STRICT MEASURES
Resorted to By t'he Police In Order to
Put Down Crime.
The local police department, in view of
the many robberies and other deeds of
depredation, have decided to wage a
relentless warfare on all vagrants,
tramps and other suspicious characters
In order to put a stop to the terrorizing
of the people.
Early last night there were several ar
rests made along this line, but at mid
night the order was issued to arrest ev
ery one In sight who could not give a
reason for their keeping late hours.
From the stroke of 12 until the wee
small hours of the morning the “sus
pects” were hauled in and quite a num
ber will hare to answer this uiorning
to Judge Feagln.
lHy LIVES REPORTED LOST
And Incalculable Damage Done
By the Floods.
LOUISVILLE IS THREATENED
With Inundation of Her Frontage By the Waters
of the Ohio.
FORTY FEET IN ONLY TWO HOURS
Was the Hise in Kentucky River—Moun
taineers Forced to Flee From Their
Homes-Clncinnati River Front
Under Water.
Frankfort, Ky.. Feb. 23.—Streams 1n
Kentucky are clear out of their banka,
and doing immense damage. Several
people have been drowned in various
parts of the state. Much stock has been
lost, fencing swept away and other prop
erty almost ruined. The streams all
through the mountains are higher than
for years and the grtatest damage is
feared.
In Perry, Knott, Letcher and Breathitt
counties the flood is doing much damage.
Jameson, the county seat of the latter
county, Is partly under water. At Beat
tyville, which is at the junction of the
three forks o-f the Kentucky river, the
rise has been unusually rapid and much
valuable property has been swept away.
Among the heaviest loseTS In the moun
tains are the lumbermen who have lost
thousands of dollars worth of timber.
At Middiesboro yesterday a cloudburst
deluged the locality, drowning James C.
Harwell, wife and four children.
All but two blocks of Plnevllle, Ky„ is
covered, while a number of little towns
along the north fork of the Kentucky
river are under water. The people have
been forced to seek shelter on the moun
tains.
Reports from Jackson and other places
up the north fork say there has been con
siderable loss of life and property.
Mrs. Hutsell and little daughter were
drowned In their house, which was wash
ed from the mountain side in Breathitt
county last night. .
Two men whose names could not be
learned were drowned In one of the
streams in Bell county.
AT CINCINNATI.
First Floors of Warehouses Flooded—
Trains Delayed—Great Losses.
Cincinnati, Feb. 23.—Large tobacco
warehouses on Front street are full of
water to the first floors, but the stock of
tobacco has been moved out. So far
there has been little loss at those places.
A Cattletsburg special says: The street 5
car line on Centre street is covered with,
water. Residents on the square bounded
by North Front, Main and Centre streets
are moving. The loss cannot be esti
mated. The greater loss Is to timber
men.
At Versailles, Ky., no trains are run
ning today on acount of the damage by
the flood at Valley View.
The train which left Versailles last
night at 6 o’clock, due at Richmond at
8 o'clock, was delayed until this morn
ing.
AT LOUISVILLE.
River Front Threatened With Inunda
tion—Forty-Foot Rise In Two Hours.
Louisville, Ky., Feb. 23.—The Ohio river
has risen eight and a half feet here since
yesterday afternoon, and is still rising at
the rate of three inches an hour. The
stage of water on the falls is 22 feet, am?
it is expected to reach 27 feet, which will
flood tire river fiont.
Two-thirds of the town of Corbin is
under water. The damage is estimated
at $25,000.
The flood damage in Southeastern Ken
tucky is estimated at $200,000. The Ken
tucky river rose forty feet in two hours
in the mountain country and swept ev
erything before it.
Beattyville Is reported flooded, but the
wires are down and the tracks of the
Richmond, Nlcholasvllle, Irvine and Be
attyville railroad are washed away for a
considerable distance, rendering commu
nication impossible.
The town of Farmer is under water.
Fifty thousand logs have been lost In the
Big Sandy valley. The mountain
streams are full of wrecks of cabins and
barns of the mountaineers.
AT PITTSBURG.
Monongahela River Shows 27 Feed; a/nd
Expected to Go Higher.
Pittsburg, Feb. 23.—The flood in the
Monongahola river marked twenty-seven
feet today and is expected to rise two
feet more. But little water, however,
is coming out of the Allegheny river, so
the Monongahela flood is passing by
without seTious damage here. It has
done considerable mischief up the river
to factories located on the banks of the
Monongahela, Youghl'ogheny and Little
rivers. All of the railroads in that sec
tion are either wholly interrupted or are
working under great difficulties. At
McKeesport the flood damage will reach
3200,000.
FRANCIS SCOTT RELEASED.
Gen. Lee, Without Uncle Sam's Aid, Se
cured the Liberation.
Havana, Feb. 23.—Francis Scott, the
American citizen who was arrested in
Regia, on the morning of Feb. 9, and has
since been detained in a Spanish Jail, was
today released from the state of incom
municado, as the result of representations
made to the acting captain-general,vthe
Marquis of Ahumada, by United States
Consul General Lee.
It is understood here that Gen. Lee is
disposed to resign if support of his ac
tion is withheld by the American govern
ment, but nothing positive is known hare
at- to what is thought of the matter in
Washington.
Americans here are free In their criti
cism of the weakness of the Washington
government in the matter of backing up
Consul General Lee.
The report that the Spanish navy is
concentrating is at present impossible
of confirmation, no positive information
regarding the statement being obtaina
ble. Numbers of Spanish war vessels are
continually arriving and departing.
NAMED TWO TRUSTEES.
Winston, N. C., Feb. 23.—J. L. Casper,
merchant and tobacco manufacturer,
assigned today, naming J. Jacobs and W.
E. Franklin trustees. Assets, $75,000;
liabilities, $40,000,
LEE HAS NOT YET RESIGNED,
At Least It Has Not Reached
Washington,
SAYS SECRATARY THURBER.
Bayard, Uhl, Eustis and Others Have Sent In
Their Papers.
DIPLOMATS ANTICIPATING A NEW REGIME.
Some Light on the “Peremptory Demands”
of Taylor and Dee and a Failure of
Necessary Backing-Inoreaeed
Duty on Imported Fruits,
Washington, Feb. 23.—The Incoming
malls of the past few days received at
the state department have been burdened
with resignations of diplomatic and high
consular officers abroad. It Is a custom
which has developed the force of an un
written law for all our diplomatic offi
cers to place their resignations in the
hands of the secretary of state of the
out-going administration when the
change of rulers, as In this case, Involved
a change of political parties. Mr. Bay
ard’s resignation as ambassador to Eng
land, It is understood, was received some
time since, as was also Mr. Eustis’ as
ambassador to France, and Mr. Uhl’s as
ambasador to Germany. The consul
generals of London, Paris and Liver
pool, these being regarded as positions
more important tnan many or me minor
diplomatic posts, have also Intimated
tliat they await the nomination and
qualification of their successors.
The resignation of Consul-General Lee
at Havana has not reached the state
department as yet. Presumably it is oA
the way, and a much discussed question
is whether it is of the ordinary perfunc
tory kind or whether it is a fact, as has
been stated and denied) that the general
has pressed its acceptance upon the
grounds of dissatisfaction with the ad
ministration.
There are reasons for believing that
the matter was today brought up in the
cabinet meeting. Emerging from the
cabinet chamber, Private Secretary
Thurber said: “You may deny emphati
cally on my authority that Gen. Lee has
resigned.” Nevertheless, as the publish
ed statements are not that Gen. Lee has
resigned, but that his resignation will
be received by the next moil, some doubt
os to whether serious friction has not
arisen between the state department and
the consul-general still remain unsettled.
This feeling was somewhat increased by
guarded remarks made by well-informed
officials that Gen. Lee was a little in
clined to be "hot-headed.” There was a
.general undercurrent of suggestion rath
jWr fhah of statement that when our min
ister at Madrid and the consul-general
at Havana were directed to make “per
emptory demands” upon Spain and those
demands were not complied with by
Spanish authorities, the United States did
not appear in a very dignified light when
it had no force at hand to back up its
requirements. This at least was said to
bo the view entertained by both Minister
Hannis Taylor and Consul-General Lee.
INCREASE OF DUTY
On Certain Tropical Fruits on Complaint
of California Fruit Growers.
Washington, Feb. 23.—A material in
crease in the rate of duty on certain
tropical fruits raised in this country was
made this morning by the republican
members of the ways and means com
mittee. A duty of 20 cents per cubic
foot was placed On oranges, lemons and
limES, whether imported in bulk or in
packages. The provision in the McKin
ley act as to barrels or packages that
contain these articles and which places
the duty at 30 p r cent, ad valorem, was
restored. The present duty on the fore
going articles is 8 cents per cubic foot.
In the McKinley law it was less, 12 cents,
inasmuch as in packages of a capacity of
one and one-fourth cubic feet, the duty
was 13 cents. Today’s increase was in
compliance with the appeals of the Cali
fornia fruit producers, who claimed that
the present rate was ruinous and that
the McKinley duty was barely sufficient.
The committee was influenced By these
considerations and after a careful inves
tigation satisfied themselves that while
th-:- new rate was practically prohibitory,
it would not increase the cost of such
fruit a quarter of a cent in each oase and
that the retail price would remain prac
tically unchanged, at the same time giv
ing the American grower a monopoly of
the home market.
TREASURY STATEMENT.
Washington, Feb. 23.—The issue of
Standard silver dollars from the mints
and treasury offices for the week ended
Feb. 20, was *331,649, and for the corre
sponding period last year was *317,148.
The shipment of fractional silver coin
from Feb. 1 to 20, aggregated *460,598.
HARD ON GROVER.
Evan P. Howell and Patrick Walsh Ex
press Admiration (?) For Grover
and His Administration.
New York, Feb. 23.—Capt. E. P. Howell,
of the Atlanta Constitution, is stopping
at the Marlborough hotel here. In speak
ing of the business situation in the south
he said that confidence had, in a measure,
returned, and that the people or his sec
tion managed to get along.
"In Atlanta,” be added, "the business
men are doing well, and the city is de
veloping. Many big buildings are going
up, and on the whole we have no reason
to complain of the dull times. Atlanta
is a prosperous city and I attribute the
good business and the activity that now
prevails there to the exposition, which
we had a year ago. It is true that money
is scarce and the rate of interest is high,
but outside of this we are moving on.
As to the farmers, they have little money,
but they are living at home and not
starving. Tthey raise their own hogs and
have learned economy by experience.
Naturally the scarcity of money is felt,
but they know how to make ends meet.
We have, as I said, more confidence than
we had before, and naturally that has
given impetus somewhat to business.
Georgia is a state that can take care of
Itself and weather dull times.”
"Is there mhch regret In the south at
the retirement of President Cleveland!”
"Not the least In the world, that I
know of. His administration will long
I
be remembered. We could not forget it
If we desired."
Ex-Senator Walsh, of Georgia, who
wras pres.nt, was in- a facetious humor,
as the following eulogy of the president
will Show:
“We cannot forget what this adminis
tration has done," he said. “It has
spread peace and plenty over the prairies
and smiling valleys of the west and
brought bounteous returns to the farm
ers and factories of the south. It has
uplifted the people and made poverty
shake off its tattered garments and go
forth in luxury and plenty. It has sent
warships to protect helpless Americans
in Cuba, has prevented our citizens from
being killed by the Spaniards and has
not given encouragement to Spain. Oh,
no. President Cleveland has given us a
■wonderful administration.”
IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
Safe Crackers Get in Their Work on a
Railway Safe.
Albany, N. Y., Feb. 23.—The safe of the
Albany Railroad company was blown
open early this morning and J2.000 stolen.
The safe crackers are believed to have
been experts. They drilled holes in the
safe door in either side of the combi
nation and touched off the blast probably,
while the policeman was sending In his
hourly return on the call. The burglar^
are thought to have been in the building
when the doors were closed for the night
as the entrance was not forced to the
office. No clue. The office of the railway
is on Broadway at the corner of State
street, opposite the postofflee, and in a
stone’s throw ctf the- newspaper office,
and people passed the building at all
times of the night.
CLINTON SHANNON
Meets a Serious and Probably Fatal
Accident at the Ensley Furnaces—
Caught by a Wire Rope.
A serious and perhaps fatal accident
befell young Clinton Shannon, at the
furnaces In Ensley City, where he Is
employed. Considerable work Is being
done there In repairing the furnaces and
Clinton, In moving the elevator or hoist
ing cage, pulled the wrong rope. He
was caught between the cage and Its
frame work and badly crushed.
His left leg was broken below the knee
and one rib was also broken, besides
which he sustained other painful injuries.
He was removed to a near by nouse and
medical aid rendered. He has not h-en
able to be moved and remains in Ensley
City.
Young Shannon's father Is the furnace
man at the plant where the boy was em
ployed.
A brother occupies a similar position
at Alice furnace, while another brother
met his death In the collapse of the Ill
fated bridge near Ensley during a pleas
ure-seeking outing just before Christmas.
GRAND LARCENY.
The Charge Against Charles L.yde, Ar
rested Last Night—Mad* a Full Con
fession of His Guilt.
About 10 o’ckck last night Capt. Weir
and Officers Nix and Newman arrested
Charlie Hyde, a yong white man 19 years
of age, on a charge of grand larceny.
The house of Mrs. Roberson, on Twenty
second street, between Second and Third
avenues, was burglarized a few days ago,
and the officers, by diligent work, located
the perpetrator and landed him behind
the bars.
Hyde admitted bis guilt to the officers,
and took them to J. Blach & Sons’ cloth
ing store, where he had left the coat,
overcoat, pants and shirt In order that
he might be able to pay for games of
pool which he had lost. The shoes, he
eaid. he had pawned, but the place was
closed when the officers went after them
last night. They will be recovered today.
Hyde is a good looking young white
man, but he has served a previous sen
tence for the larceny of clothing from
the Henly house about two years ago. It
is ^id (hat ho will enter a plea of guilty
in the Inferior criminal court this morn
ing. _
ASKED FOR A RECEIVER
For the Georgia Security Company—suit
For Damages May Result.
Atlanta, Ga„ Feb. 23.—An application
•was made today by two stockholders for
a receiver for the Georgia Security and
Banking company, of which Otis Smith
was cashier. Title stockholders say that
Smith’s embezzlement added to the com
pany’s depressed assets make it practi
cally bankrupt. Judge Lumpkin set the
petition for a hearing on Saturday. The
officers and some of the stockholders of
the company declare that it is not in
solvent .and say that they "will sue the
stockholders and’•attorney® who filed the
petition for a receiver.
A GEORGIA CYCLONE.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 23.—A special to the
Constitution from Athens, Ga., says that
a cyclone struck that city today about
nooii and whipped off roofs and did much
damage ini a small way. The Lucy Cobb
institution was damaged and the roof
was taken off a hall in which a cotillion
was in progress. The dancers were del
uged, but no persons were seriously hurt.
M’KINLEY WILL NOT INTERFERE.
London. Feb. 23.—Dispatches to the
Central News from Madrid says that
Prime Minister Canovas Del Castillo
states that he has received official in
formation that Mr. McKinley, when he
assumes the office of president of the
United States, will do nothing to aid the
insurgents in Cuba or to effect the inde
pendence of tlie island.
PLAYED NO FAVORITES.
Atlanta. Ga., Feb. 23.—Otis Smith, the
young embezzler, was placed in Jail here
tonight. He had been under the custody
of the detectives for four days. His
shortage is estimated to be about 10,000.
He robbed personal friends and corpora
tions without discrimination, or favorit
ism.
NEW WORLD RECORD.
San Francisco, Cal., Feb. 23.—During
the bicycle races at the Velodrome yes
terday, W. E. Breaker defeated Horace
Slater in a match race and established
a new world's record for five miles, mak
ing the distance in 9:53 3-6.
WILL RESUME SOON.
Providence, R. I., Feb. 23.—The Nlch
oll's mill in Burrillville, is to be put In
operation as soon as possible. It will
employ about 100 hands. This factory
has been Idle for several months.
KILLED FIVE LABORERS.
Murray, Ky„ Feb. 23.—A premature ex
plosion of dynamite at the gravel pit here
at noon today killed five negro laborers
and wounded us many more. Two of the
Injured will die. -•
THE DEATH OF RICARDO RUIZ
To Be Investigated in the Senate
Chamber.
STATEMENT OF THE FACTS.
Concernin^'is Arrest, Imprisonment and Death
^sked Frotn the President.
V . _
OPE^illG OF INDIAN RESERVATION
Ter? ttlement Calls Forth a Bitter War of
/ dords— Civil Service Law Throws
Jtji“ the House Into a Spirited Debate—
Naval Appropriations.
Washington, Feb. 23.—In the senate to
day a resolution was offered by Mr. Mills
(dem., T- x.) and was agreed to, request
ing the president to furnish a statement
of the facts concerning the arrest, im
prisonment and death of Dr. Ricardo
Ruiz in a Cuban Jail.
The vice-president laid before the s n
ate a report from the secretary of state
as to the persons claiming to be Amari
can citizens, who were captured on board
the Competitor. Referred to the commit
tee on foreign relations. The report con
tains nqthing new, Secretary Olney stat
ing that "practically all the information,
call-d for by the resolution" had be n
submitted to the senate J in. 22, last, and
that since that date nothing had taken
place of consequ nee either in the way
of information received or correspond
ence • xchanged.
Practically the entire day was con
sumed In a discussion of an amendment
in the Indian appropriation bill for the
opening to settlement of the Uncompah
gre Indian reservation in Utah, contain
ing over 2,000,000 acres.
The amendment was resisted by Mr.
Vilas (dem., VVts.) principally on the
ground that it was in the interest of rich
corporations who were engaged in ihe
business of extracting asphaltum and gll
Stnite, of which there are large and val
uable deposits in th-> reservation. Be
fore abandoning the fight. Mr. Vilas pro
posed an amendment looking into this
which were then to be leased for twenty
five years, a royalty of so much per ton
to be paid to the governm-nt. This was
fought by Mr. Brown (rep., Utah) as
entirely at variance with the mining laws
of the country, and with the Interests
of the people. It was defeated; and
then the original amendment somewhat
modified, was agreed to. That one par
agraph was the only paragraph which
Ihe senate made in the Indian appropria
tion bill. It was laid aside at 4-40 and
the senate proceeded to the consid-ration
of executive business and shortly af
terward adjourned until tomorrow at 11
a. m.
IN THE HOUSE.
The house, late this afternoon, ran un
expectedly into an interesting and pos
sibly significant discussion! or the civil
service law. It came about by the con
sideration of a bill to amend the re
vised statutes, so as to give the gov
ernors of the territories the power to
remove as well as to appoint territorial
officers.
It was participated in by a dozen mem
bers or more, nearly all of whom criticis
ed and condemned the civil service law,
it finding its only defenders in Repre
sentatives Brosius, (rep. of Pennsylva
nia), and Walker, of Massachusetts.
Mr. Grosvenor, (rep. of Ohio), denied
the law as a “sinuous, infamous con
spiracy upon the government,” and ex
pressed the opinion that a tide was ris
ing in this country which would sweep
bureaucracy from power.
Mr. Bailey, of Texas, democrat, de
scribed the system as a humbug, and
raid the reason why the democratic party
did not repeal the law when it had the
power, was that it did not have enough
sense.
Mr. Brosius depreciated tne sentiments
of Mr. Groevenor anti of the republican
applause which their utterance evoked,
saying1 that, In view of Major McKinley's1
well known attitude toward the merit
system, it seemed to him “a flashing
of a sword in the heart of the president
elect."
The bill that started the debate was
passed.
Must of the session was spent in con
sideration of the naval appropriation bill.
Mr. Barrett, (rep. of Massachusetts),
criticised the bill for its failure to make
appropriation for what he deemed to be
one of the most Important parts of the
service, the construction, of dry docks,
and he moved an amendment authorizing
one to be built at the Boston navy yard
■to cost not exceeding $1,000,000. He made
an extended speech in support of the
amendment, which was followed by a
long and somewhat acrimonious discus
sion. but it was finally defeated, only
about half a dozen members supporting
It. The bill was passed exactly as It
came from the committee on naval af
fairs.
Senate bills were passed granting a
pension to the widow of the late Gen1.
Thomas L. Casey, chief of engineers, with
an amendment reducing the amount from
$75 to $50 per month; also authorizing the
Montgomery, Haynevillfc and Camden
Railroad company to build a bridge
across the Alabama river between Lower
Peachtree and Mary Bluff.
At 5:15 p. m. the house adjourned until
tomorrow.
AN IMPORTANT ARREST.
Jackson. Miss., Feb. 23.—The city po
lice made an Important arrest last night.
A cow had been stolen and a negro
named Henry Murf was Jailed charged
with the crime, evidence against him be
ing conclusive. This morning City Mar
shal Ewing took the prisoner to Touga
loo. suspecting him of being the one who
held up and shot Station Agent Harris In
the neck Sunday a week ago. Mr. Har
ris positively identified him and he was
returned to Jackson Jail. The negro had
a grip full of fine clothes when arrested,
all of which were stolen from a merchant
at Martin, Jan. 16. Murf Is an ex-convict
who has served two years for burglary
of a st re at Forrest and was released
early In January.
AN EXTRA SESSION
Frankfort, Ky., Feb. 23.—At Sunday's
conference betwe<n Pr-sldent-elect Mc
Kinley nnd Gov. Bradley, it was agreed
that the governor should appoint a sen
ator March 5 and call an extra session of
the legislature for a later day. It Is
now believed that the governor will ap
point either John W. Yelks or St. John
Boyle.
VICTORY FOR THE WOMEN.
Harrisburg, Pa., Feb. 23.—In the house
today the bill prohibiting the wearing of
high hats in theaters was defeated on
final passage. Yeas, 79; nays, 71; it be
ing less than a constitutional majority.BIRMINGHAM STATE
HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1897.
NUMBER 33
CUBA AGAIN JURE FRONT
Too Many Americans Being Im
prisoned by the Spaniards
AND A HALT DEMANDED
Allen, Hill and Morgan Introduce Plain, Un
varnished Resolutions.
PERKINS AND HILL REBUKED
While Occupying the Chair—Status of the
Great Appropriations Bills—Bryan Re
ceived With a Marked Ovation by
Members of the Lower Houbs.
Washington, Feb. 24.—The senate met
ait 11 o'clock this morning and will con
tinue to meet at that hour during the
rest of the session'.
An effort was made by Mr. Nelson, (rep.
of Massachusetts), to have a time fixed
for taking a vote om the bankruptcy bill,
but unanimous consent wa3 necessary
and that could not be had.
Cuba came to the front at the outset of
the day's business.
Mr. Allen, (pop. of Nebraska), offered
the following resolution^ and asked for
its Immediate consideration:
Resolved, That It Is the sense of the
senate that the president should speedily
and effectually protect thellves ar.d liber
ties of peaceable Amerlaan citizens re
siding or sojourning in Cuba, and that
he should promptly insist that Spain, in
her war against her colonists In the is
land should conduct the same on princi
ples of civilized warfare, eliminating all
unusual and unnecessary cruelty and
barbarity and for the enforcement of
these reasonable and just requirements,
United States battleships should be sent,
without delay, to Cuban* waters.
Objection to the immediate considera
tion of the resolution was made by Sena
tors Cray, (dent of Delaware), and Quay,
(rep. of Pennsylvania), and it went over
till tomorrow.
Mr, Hill offered another resolution on
the same general subject. It was agreed
to. It Is as follows:
Resolved, That the secretary of state
be, and he is hereby requested to trans
mit to the senate, either In open or secret
session, as he may prefer, all the cor
respondence and reports of the' consul
general of the United States at Havana,
relating to all American citizens now to
prison to the Island of Cuba, not pre
viously reporter! on.
The third and most Important proposi
tion on the subject of the war In Cuba
was presented by Mr. Morgan, who said
that he heid been instructed by the com
mittee on foreign, relations to report a
joint resolution, "demanding the release
of Julio Sangullly, an American imprison
ed In1 Cuba,” As if was. in his own hand
writing he read It to the senate as fol
lows:
Resolved, By the senate and house of
representatives, That the government of
the United States demand the Immedi
ate and unconditional release of Julio
Sangullly, a citizen of the United
States, Imprisoned undeT charges pend
ing against him in the military and civil
courts of Cuba, on alleged grounds of
rebellion and kidnapping, contrary to the
treaty rights of each of said govern
ments, and in violation of the laws of
nations. And the president of the Unit
ed States is requested to communicate
this resolution! to the government of
Spain and to demand of that government
such compensation as he shall deem just
foT the Imprisonment and sufferings of
Julio Sanguilly.
"The committee thought,” Mr. Morgan
continued, "that It was its duty to re
quest the earliest action on this joint
resolution, and Inasmuch as members of
the committee were absent at the time
the resolution was ordered to be reported,
1 give notice and call the attention of the
chairman of the committee on foreign
relations to it, that I will move tomor
row to take up the joint resolution for
action."
Mr. Sherman, chairman of the foreign
relations committee, said:
•'The resolution was agreed to unani
mously by the committee. I have no
objection whatever to letting it go over
till tomorrow; and I hope that the senate
will then act upon it.”
The Joint resolution accordingly went
over till tomorrow.
The Indian appropriation bill was then
taken up and two or three of the com
mittee amendments to it provoked long
and rather angry discussions.
Remarkably enough, two of the tempo
rary occupants' of the chair received
stinging rebukes from senators—first Mr.
Perkins (rep., Cal.) from Mr. Allen (pop.,
Neb.) and afterwards Hill (dem., N. Y.)
from Pettigrew (silver, S. D.) But the
scene which attracted most attention
was one in which Senators Pettigrew
and Hoar were the chief actors. Mr.
Pettigrew had met an attack of Mr.
Chandler's on a committee amendment
as to the large claim on the western' Chero
kees found for legal services rendered to
the Cherokees, by attempting to turn into
ridicule the Now Kngland sympathy for
Indians, and recalling the cruelties prac
ticed in King Phillip's war and by Miles
Standish. Mr. Chandler retaltat-d by
inquiring from Mr. Pettigrew where he
was born—a question which Mr. Petti
grew declined to answer, and concern
ing which his conflict with Senator Hill
(In the chair) took place. And Senator
Hoar indulged in some very scathing
comments on Mr. Pettigrew as one who
went "mousing” in ancient history to
meet an argument; as raving stuaieu
more history for the purpose of a speech
Than he had ever done before; and as
belonging 'to that specie* of birds which
‘'fough; their own nests.”
Mr. Morrill withdrew the notice which
!he had given for a speech tomorrow on
the Cuban question, his reason being an
unwillingness to occupy the time which
should be given to appropriation bills;
and Mr. Allison, chairman of the com
mittee on appropriations, remarked upon
the backward condition of the appropria
tion bills, and gave notice that from to
morrow on late night sessions would be
absolutely necessary.
At 6:30 p. m. the senate adjourned.
The postofflee appropriation bill was re
ported to the senate during the afternoon
and placed on the calendar.
The (ollowing is the status of the great
appropriation bills:
Passed and signed by the president:
The pension appropriation bill, the ur
gent deficiency bill, the military academy
bill and the legislative appropriation bill.
In the hands of the president: The di
plomatic and consular appropriation bill.
In conference: The army appropriation
bill and the agricultural bill (conference
report pending In the house).
Under consideration In the senate; The
Indian appropriation bill.
On the senate calendar: The postoffice
appropriation bill.
Before the senate committee on appro
priations: The fortification bill; the Dis
trict of Columbia appropriation bill; the
sundry civil bill and the general defi
ciency bill
IN THE HOUSE.
The appearance of W. J. Bryan, the
democratic candidate for president last
fall, upon the floor of the house was the
most noticeable event of today's session.
He has the entrde of the floor as an ex
member, and came into the hall at 4:30
o’clock, about an hour after his arrival In
the city. His appearance evoked ap
plause from many members, a few of
whom gave vocal expression to their
pleasure. Prom his old seat he respond
ed to the greetings of his friends and ac
quaintances, his face beaming with
smiles. Among those who shook his
hand was Gen. Grosvenor, republican, of
Ohio, the most prominent republican
who extended a welcome to the late dem
ocratic leader. 'Before leaving the hall
Mr, Bryan paid his respects to Speaker
Reed.
Nearly two hours were spent in the dis
cussion of a resolution recommended by
the committee on accounts, authorizing
the preparation of a digest of election
cases in the Fifty-third and Fifty-fourth
congresses, to cost $2,500, and to be pre
pared by the clerks of the committees on
elections. This'was urged by the chair
man of elections committee, but it was
finally referred, to the committee on
printing.
The conference report upon the MU to
define the right of purchasers of the prop
erty of the Atlantic and Pacific Railway
company was agreed to.
Mr. Grout (rep. Vt.) presented the re
port of the special committee appointed
to investigate the management of the
Leavenworth Soldiers’ Home, which was
ordered printed.
A message was received from the pres
ident. transmitting the report of the joint
commission appointed under the agsee
mer.'t of the United States and Great
Britain in 1892, on the fisheries of the
waters contiguous to the United States
and Canada.
The rest of the day was spent in con
sideration and disposing of business re
lating to the District of Columbia. The
mo3t important measure passed was the
senate bill making the Potomac park out
of the Potomac fiats, land' reclaimed
from the water in the Potomac river.
At 5 o’clock the house adjourned.
WANTS A NEW TRIAL.
Atlanta, Ga„ Feb. 24—Argument was
begun in tho supreme court today on the
Ryder case. Dr. Ryder, who was con
victed of murdering Miss Emma Owens,
in Talbot county, asked for a new trial
and a change of venue The motion was
overruled by the lower court, and an ap
peal was taken. The bill of exceptions is
a very long one. Solicitor-General Price
Gilbert and ex-Judge Martin spoke to
day for the state. Messrs. Carey Thorn
ton and Dupont Guerry made arguments
in Ryder's behalf. Attorney-General
Terry will close for the state tomorrow,
and J. H. Worrlll, of Columbus, will con
clude for Ryder.
ICE MEN IN SESSION.
W. J. Rushton, of This City, Reads an
Able Paper on “Steam Boilers”—
Large Accession to the Ranks.
•Charleston, S. C., Feb. 24,-The seventh
annual meeting ot the Southern Ice ex
change was called to order here today
at 10 o’clock by President Graves, of
Memphis, who made a short address,
urging harmony of action. At the morn
ing session pap TS were read by W. J.
Rushton, of Birmingham, on "Steam
Boilers,” and by Dr. F. W. Fredericks,
of St. Routs, on “Aqua Ammonia,” and
the executive committee, through Chair
man Wilezinski, rendered a report.
The affairs of the exchange Wrre
shown to be in a splendid condition, and
several recommendations on routine mat
ters were made. It was urged that a
committee be appointed to assist in
bringing about a meeting and organiza
tion of the icemen of the whole country.
Twenty-one active and eighteen associat
ed members have joined the exchange
sine- the New Orleans meeting.
The banquet given the convention to
night was largely attended. Mayor
Smyth welcomed the visitors to the city
and' a number of toasts were responded
to. The convention will reassemble at
10 o’clock tomorrow.
THE TURF.
FRISCO RESORTS.
San Francisco, Feb. 24.—Weather fine,
track fast; five favorites won. Results:
First Race—Three and a half furlongs,
selling. Morano, 104 (H. Martin), 8 to £
won; Old Jack second, Sabeoth. third.
Time, 0:43%.
Second Race—Six furlongs, purse. Sir
Richard, 110 (Plggott), 20 to 1, won; Brem
letta second, Camelia third. Time, 1:1*%.
Third Race—Three and a half furlongs.
Free Lady, 105 CT. Sloan), 9 to 10, won;
Aluminum second, Ongua Nlta third.
Time, 0:43%.
Fourth Race—One mile, handicap. Fer
rier, 110 (T. Sloan), 9 to 5, won; Installs -
tor second, Ostler Joe third. Time, 1:42%.
Fifth Race—Mile and a quarter, over
five hurdles. Three Forks, 164 (Hennes
sey), 1 to 2. won; Reddington second,
Governor Budd third. Time, 2:20.
Sixth Race—Mile and a furlong. Form
al, 104 (T. Sloan), 3 to 5, won; Perseus
second, Coda third. Time, 1:56%.
Seventh Race—Six furlongs, selling.
Imp. Santa Bella, 102 (Sloan), 7 to 6, won;
Preston second, Logan third. Time,
1:16%:
THOROUGH STUMPING TOUR
Of Ohio to Be Inaugurated With a View
to Having a Free Silver Senator.
Columbus, O., Feb. 24.—Arrangements
are being made for a thorough stumping
tour in Ohio by William J. Bryan in the
coming campaign for the election of the
legislature that will choose tjie successor
to Marcus A. Hanna, in the United States
senate. Mr. Bryan, if he decides to
come, will work in the interest of John R.
McLean, who will be the candidate of
the democrats for senator.
The democratic leaders in Ohio believe
that by hard work and good management
a free silver senator can be secured here.
They will rely largely upon the dissat
isfaction which they expect to follow the
appointment of Mr. Hanna to the senate
and appear in the republican vote next
fall.
DAMAGED BY FIRE.
Chicago. Feb. 24.—The Park Gate hotel,
Sixty-third ' street and Stoney Island
avenue, was damaged by fire at 7 o’clock
this morning to the extent of $25,000. The
blaze started in the boiler room in the
basement and many of the 250 occupants!
of the hotel who were still in bed, nar
rowly escaped suffocation from the
heavy smoke which asoended tfhe elevator
shaft and spread through all the apart
ments. A number of the inmates were
carried front the building by the police
and flreimeni, but bo one was seriously
Injured.
v.
NATIONAL CAPITAL GOSSIP,
Bryan’s Opinion of the Silver Re
publicans’ Address.
BELIEVES THEY ARE RIGHT
In Continuing a Separate Organization and
That They WiH Prove Valuable
IN THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGN OF 1900.
EWorable Report on on International Bank
By the House Banking and Currency
Committee—Norfolk, Va., Post
mastership Decided.
Washington, Feb. 24.—Mr. Bryan was
asked tonight: "What do you think of
the address issued by the silver repub
licans?”
He replied: "I believe that they are
right in continuing a separate organiza
tion as silver republicans. They were
among the most effective supporters of
bimetallism during the campaign, and
since the election they have stood un
shaken and undismayed. They do not
consider themselves democrats or pop
ulists, and since they cannot affiliate
with the republican party while it stands
for the gold standard, they have wisely
decided to complete an organization
and hold their forces together. In ac
cepting the nomination of the national
silver party, I stated that we did not In
sist upon the silver republicans becoming
democrats, but that we accepted their
support with the understanding that the
same patriotism which directed them in
1S96 would be present to direct them in
1900. The democratic party deserved
their confidence in 1896, and I hope that
It will deserve their support in the next
campaign. Future events must determ
ine what Is wise in 1900.”
AN INTERNATIONAL BANK
Reported Favorably From the House
Committee On Banking and Currency.
Washington, Feb. 24.—The house com
mittee on banking and currency today,
by a vote of 7 to 5, ordered favorably
reported the hill Introduced by Mr. Hitt,
of Illinois, authorizing the establishment
of an International bank. Mr. Hendricks,
one of those voting to report the meas
ure, Is opposed to Us passage, and voted
for It simply to get it out of the commit
tee. Mr. MeCleary voted to report it In
order to give the house an opportunity
to consider It, reserving the right to op
pose it In the house.
Those voting for the bill were: Messrs.
Broslus, of Pennsylvania: Van Voorhees,
of Ohio; Hill, of Connecticut; Cooke, of
Illinois, and Walker, of Massachusetts.
Against It: Messrs. Cox, of Tennessee;
Stallings, of Alabama; Black, of Georgia:
Spalding, of Michigan, and Calderhead.
of Kansas.
A minority report will be drawn by Mr.
Cox.
THE NORFOLK POSTMASTERSHIP.
Favorable to W. T. Anderson Ordered—
Republicans Fall to Appear.
Washington, Feb. 24.—The nomination
of W. T. Anderson, of Norfolk, Va„ to be
postmaster at that place was ordered to
be favorably reported to th ? senate by
the postofflce committee today. Charges
had been preferred before the committee
against Mr. Anderson in which it was
asserted that he had hindered voting in
some of the colored wards of that city.
Col. Lamb, chairman of the republican
committee, did not appear before the
committee to back up the charges. Mr.
Anderson and his friends were present
and denied them. On the failure of Col.
Lamb to appear, the committee accepted
Mr. Anderson's e vidence and ordered the
report to be made.
OFF TO THE SOUTH.
Washington, Feb. 24.—Archbishop MaT
tinelli, apostolic delegate, and Dr. F. Ze
rooker, his private secretary, left Wash
ington on the Washington and South
western limited, over the Southern rail
way last night for New Orleans. This is
the first visit of the archbishop through
the south since his elevation to the bish
opric, and great preparations have been
made at New Orleans for his entertain
ment during the progress of the Catholic
winter school at that point.
A GOOD BEGINNING.
Washington, Feb. 24.—The Daughters
of the American Revolution this morning
at their congress formulated plans for
building a hall 200 by 200 feet on 'the mon
ument lot in this city and raised about
$25,000 to start the work. A bill to give
them the site has passed the senate and
it is expected to pass the house before
the close of the session.
REED INVITED TO NASHVILLE.
Washington, Feb. 24.—The Tennessee
delegation of the house- today presented
Speaker Reed with resolutions passed by
the centennial board of that state, in
viting hJm to attend the opening of the
exposition at Nashville In May. He said
he would attend if possible.
GOOD FOR FLORIDA.
Washington, Feb. 24.—The senate com
mittee on commerce today recommended
an amendment directing the unexpend
ed balances heretofore appropriated for
the improvement of the Suwanee river,
Florida, to be,expended in deepening the
river at Its mouth.
WANTS THE STOCK.
Jackson, Miss., Feb. 24.—State Revenue
Agent Adam? has entered suit in the
chancery court of Hinds county to com
pel the Illinois Central Railroad company
to issue $200,000 worth of stock in its
"Little J” division. About 1879 Hinds
oounty voted $200,000 in bonds to assist
In the construction of the Natchez, Jack
son and Columbus railroad (the Little J),
the understandirig b.effifer that -the county
was to receive that amount of stock in
the road. The stock was never delivered
but the county pays its interest regularly
and it is to compel the delivery of the
stock that the suit is brought.
QUICK WORK.
Jackson, Miss., Feb. 24.—Mr. Sam Weed,
of Winona, arrived In Jackson yesterday
and after night called on his sweetheart,
Miss Rena Small, also of Winona, who
was here visiting her aunt. He prevailed
on the young lady to enter a hack and
saying nothing to her aunt, they drove
Immediately to his hotel where a minister
was waiting and were-aanrried. The bride
Is -the daughter of a prominent physician
1 at Winona. “
TO ADVANCE UPON ATHENS
Is the Determination of the Sul
tan of Turkey,
UNLESS SHE EVACUATES
Burning of the Governor's Palace in Canea
Creates a Mystery.
GONE FOREVER IS TURKEY’S HOPE
Of Holding Cretans as Supplyers of the
Chest—Greek Govormnont Will Op
pose Autonomy—Turkey Said
to Bo Weak-kneed.
London, Feb. 24.—The Standard tomor
row will publish a Constantinople dis
patch saying it is reported that at the
council held at the YJdtz palace yester
day, it was decided to make prepara
tions for the eventual advance upon
Athens of three columns, comprising six
divisions of infantry. A note to the
Greek government would precede the ad
vance, demanding the evacuation of
Crete within a certain, period and threat
ening, if this demand was not complied
•with, the Ottoman troops would cross
the frontier.
The dispatch also says that the minis
ter of marine has pledged his word that
be would have thirteen warships ready
for action within a week. Military pre
parations a.re being pushed with unparal
leled activity. Reports from various
sources state that energetic preparatiior.it
are being carried ow day and night, al
though many of the Instructions issued
are impossible of execution and an ugly
feeling of unrest prevails.
WHO FIRED THE BUILDING?
Governor’s Palace at Canea Burned to
the Ground—Groundless Charge.
London, Feb. 24.—The Dally News to
morrow publishes a dispatch from Canea
giving a description of the burning of
the governor’s palaoe today. Vice-Ad
miral Canovarl, of the Italian squadron,
who is In command of the united navail
f rce® In Cretan waters, resided in the
palace, which was guarded by strong
frrcea of Italian, sailors. The energetic
efforts of the Britiitih marines, who form
a part of the foreign forces occupying the
town, whkih were continued for three
hours alone, saved the thickly populated
districts In which the patace was locat
ed, from destruction Detachments of
sailors from the warships In the harbi r
were landed and rendered valuable aid
in fighting the flames.
Thj (Ire destroyed the last vestige of
i.V machinery of the Turkish govern
ment. AH of the records were consumed,
■8 well as contracts and financial, legal
nd municipal documents. During the
lire a safe Delonglng to the Turkish gov
ernor fell and burst, and a quantity of
gold coin was exposed. The Turkish sol
diers tried to steal the money, but were
prevented by the European oillcers and
sailors, who fired blank cartridges at the
robbers. The Incident nearly caused a
riot between the Turks and the Euio
p:ans.
ismaei wey accusea ine sailors or plun
dering the palace, and an investigation
was at once begun by the admirals of the
foreign warships. The inquiry proved
that the charges ogainst the sailors were
entirely without foundation. While the
palace was burning the Moslem rabble
set fire to several houses in the town and
suburbs. The Montenegrin police, who
patrolled the town, extinguished these
tins when it was possible, but three large
hduses belonging to Christian merchants
were destroyed. No strong efforts were
made to save the three houses before
mentioned', and in view of this apathy it
would not be surprising if the Moslems
should begin a course of wholesale de
struction of the property of absentees.
NOT OF INCENDIARY ORIGIN.
Canea, Feb. 24.—Fire was discovered at
an early hour this morning in the gov
ernor’s palace, a building constructed of
wood, and in a very short time the build
ing. with all of Its contents, was burned
to the ground- During the progress of
the fire there was considerable excite
ment in the town, but there Is reason to
believe that it was not of incendiary ori
gin, but was due to accident.
GONE FOREVER
I# the Possibility of Turkey Having Con
trol of Cretan Territory.
London, Feb. 24.—In the course of a
speech delivered In London this evening
George J. Goschen, first lord of the ad
miralty, defended the action taken by
Great Britain In regard to Cretan affairs
in terms similar to those used in the
houise of commons two days ago. Mr.
Gpschen also repudiated the assertion
which has been made that the British gov
ernment was acting in the interests of
Turkey. The British Ships overawing the
Musselmans in the seaports of Crete, he
declared, had saved thousands of Chris
tians from massacre. Besides this, the
British vessels were harboring refugees
and supplying them with the necessities
of life.
Lord Salisbury ana A. J. uaiTour, Mr.
Goechen announced, would make clear
statements In parhament tomorrow re
garding the future of the Island.
Meanwhile, he declared, no one who had
read the declarations of Mr. Balfour,
M. Hanotaux and Baron Marshall Von
Bleberotein will believe 'It possible that
Crete will ever return to the rule of Tur
key.
GREEK REINFORCEMENTS.
Const a mtlnio pie, Feb. 24.—Dispatches
have been received by the Turkish gov
ernment saying that 600 Greek troops,
with three guns and a large supply of
ammunition, have been landed at Cher
Jooesus, in the province of Camdia, Is
land of Crete. The Greeks were directed
by an Insurgent Haider.
TO WAR ON CHRISTIANS.
Constantinople, Feb. 24.—Leaflets have
been distributed in the mosque* here call
ing upon the faithful to exterminate the
Infidels, and much agitation and excite
ment la caused by the reports received
from Crete.
GREECE ORDERED OUT.
Vienna, Feb. 24.—Greece has been or
dered by the powers to evacuate Crete at
once. This action is the result of a
circular note recently sent to the pow
ers by the government of Russia, re
questing them to join In tlhie demand that
the sultan authorise the powers to act
Jointly in the pacification of Crete, and
orgafci Iaaitton of a F-yte m of autonomy
Pot -the le'iamd, ret^iing the Integrity
of the Turkish empire. The assent of the
powers to this proposal having been ob
tained, notice to Greece bo evacuate fol
lowed.
THE TURKS ACQUIESCE.
Cainica.. Feb. 24.—The foreign vice-con
suls at Rett mo announce that the Turks
decialre they will accept annexation of
the Ieipind of Crete to Greece. The an
nouncement has caused a great sensation.
WANT THE WHITE FEATHER.
Athens, Feb. 24.—Two of the most in
fluential newspapers of the city, the
Akropolis and the Nea H-mera, urge that
in response to the demands of the powers,
the Greek army be withdrawn from
Crete. Greece, the papers say, has done
h:r utmost and has gone even to the
limit Of daring.
WAS IT INCENDIARY?
London, Feb. 24.—Tomorrow the Times
will publish a dispatch from Canea con
firming the report of the dang-rous situ
ation which exists in the town owing to
the lack of proper control. There is a
strong suspicion, the dispatch says, that
the fire that destroyed the governor's
palace was Incendiary. Bands dally
make exfcursJons to the Halepo district
for the purpose of looting the houses of
Christians which have been deserted.
WILLIAM'S ASSURANCE.
London, Feb. 24.—The Times tomorrow 1
will print a dispatch from Constantinople
saying that Emperor William, of Ger
many, has again wired to the sultan
assurances of Ills friendship and sup
port.
THE LABEL LAW,
Requiring Manufacturers to Lab 1 Fruit,
Violated and Suits Entered.
Baltimore, Md., Feb. 24.—A number of
Baltimore canners and packers were to
day found guilty of violating the Mary
land label law, requiring that ail canned
goods should bear the name and address
of the packer. The prosecution was at
the instance of the California Fruit
Growers’ association. Mr. Walter, who
represented the Pacific Coast Fruiters,
said that the case was important; as the
west is being flooded with Maryland
canned fruit bearing California labels.
The Baltimore firms involved will move
for a new trial, and failing therein, will
carry the case to the court of appeals.
The penalty for violating the label law ,
is a fine from $50 to $1,000 for each of- '
fensr.
ANNOUNCED HIS SUSPENSION.
New York, Feb. 24.—W. S. Alley an
nounced his suspension on the stock ex
change today. It Is stated that th© sus
pension was the result ot litigation con
nected with the firm of Alley. Dowd &
Co., and which dated back over ten years.
Recent operations had nothing to do with
the failure.
CECIL ON THE STAND.
Attempts to Justify Himself for the
Transvaal Raid at the Expense of
the English Government—In
terest In the Matter on
i: i the Wane. : t. .
. London, Feb. 24.—The examination of
Cecil Rhodes by the parliamentary com
mittee appointed to inquire Into the
Transvaal raid, was resumed in West
minster hall today. The Prince of Wales
was again present during the proceedings
and Dr. Jameson, the leader of the Trans
vaal raiders, made his appearance at the
inquiry for the first time. The examina
tion of Mr. Rhodes occupied the entire
sitting of the committee. The hall was
not so well filled with spectators as at
the former sittings, interest in the In
quiry being apparently on the wane.
Several times during the examination
Mr. Rhodes tried to justify the raid by
calling attention to the fact that England
is now’ in full sympathy with the Cretans
in seeking to obtain- their civil rights,
whereas it was Britons who sought their
civil rights n the Transvaal. He also
reiterated the declaration he made on the
firso day of his examination that the peo
ple of Johannesburg would never cease
their agitation until they had secured
their popular rights. Mr. Rhodes fur
ther declared that President Kruger,
prior to the revolutionary measures of
the Johanncsburgers, had promised to
grant their demands, but had failed to
keep his promises.
In reply to a question by Edward Blake,
Mr. Rhodes said he had been told that he
had let Johannesburg in for the Trans
vaal trouble, but after examining the let
ters and telegram? he arrived at the con
clusion that it was rather Johannesburg
that let him in.
Referring to the conversation between
himself and “Boddy White,” Col. Rhodes
said: "We were discussing the Egyptian
question. I said, ‘If Great Britain decid
ed to remain, I should stop any foreign
power from ooining between Khartoun
and Uganda.’
"White replied: ‘We had no Instruc
tions.’
"I answered: 'Of course not, but it Is
not the government’s policy that you
should lie on your back and eat three
meals a day. You ought to ascend the
Nile and make it impossible for the
French to cross.’
”1 did not know White would apply my
remark to something else. He shows
how careful you ought to be In what you
say.”
Mr. Rhodes In answer to further ques
tions said that his determination to pro
ceed to extreme measures was reached
in conjunction with the leaders at Johan
nesburg. Owing to the hopelessness of
obtaining redress for the existing griev
ance It was Intended to change the gov
ernment.
Answering a question regarding the
Matabele war the witness said:
‘It is fortunate for you that you have
not h-ad to pay for It.”
The committee then adjourned until
Friday.
THE VENETIAN RED.
Pittsburg, Pa., Feb. 24.—The special
train conveying President-elect McKin
ley and his guests from Canton to Wash
ington, will be known as the Pennsyl
vania Railroad Venetian Red, all tihe
cars composing the special being finished
In that tint within and without. The
train will consist of orae baggage oar,
one dining ear, two Pullman sleepers, the
Ardtn and Delphi, for tlhie accommodation
of the Inaugural committee and repre
sentatives of the press and special.
Pennsylvania cara No. 506 and No. 38.
will be occupied by Major McKinley, his
family and personal friends. The train
will leave Canton Monday. March 1,
at 8 p. m., and Is due In Pittsburg at
11:15 p. m., eastern time; In1 Altoona at
3:05 a m.; In Harrisburg at 6:45 a. m.;
In Baltimore at 9:40 a. m., and In Wash
ington at 11 a. m. March 2.
HART RELEASED ON BAIL.
Philldelphla, Feb. 24.—At 3 o’clock this
afternoon John D. Hart was released on
17.000 ball to appear before Judge Butler
next Tuesday, when the motion for a
new trial will be argued. He hud re
mained In Jail since adjournment cf
court yesterday.
Eight Out of Nine Occupants of
a Wagon Killed.
STRUCK BY A FLYING TRAIN
They Were Thrown Hither and Thither Meet
ing Instantaneous Deaths.
AN
INF/ST WAS THE SOLE SURV.VOR
a
Fouiy^ightly Clutched In Her Mother’s
on the Engine's Pilot—Grue
jjg some Bight at the Morgue—En*
*
gineer Not Blamed.
ig —
"/Chattanooga, Tenn.. Feb. 24.—About 4
o cla&k this afternoon on the Southern
railway, four miles from this city, in
coming passenger train No. 7. traveling
at a high speed, struck a covered coun
try wagon which was trying to clear the
tracks ahead of the train at Avondale
crossing. The wagon was hit squarely
in the center and with its ten occupants
hurled high into the air. The occupants
were Mrs. W. J. Woodward, h r eight
children and one grandchild, all of whom,
with one exception, were kill - a.
The dead are: Mrs. William J. Wood
ward, Mrs. Dizzie Woodward Montgom
ery, ’a married daughter, aged 20, two
months' old infant daughter, Georg- T.
Woodward, aged 23, Delia Woodward,
aged 18, Mary Woodward, aged 15, -
Woodward, ag-d 10.
The last two lingered several hours af
ter tlie accident. A striking feature of
the catastrophe is that no limbs were
broken, but in nearly every case the
skulls of the victims were crushed to
fragments, each body seeming to de
scribe an eclipse through the air, and
falling upon its head, several at fifty to
100 feet apart from the scene.
Lizzi- Montgomery, a comely young
matron, descended on the pilot of the
locomotive and still held her two-year-old
sister, who escaped with a few scratches
and was the only one saved, in her life
less arms.
The unfortunate were the family of
a well known farmer living near King's
Point, Tenn. They were returning home
from this city In a wagon of the "prairie
schooner” type and George Woodward,
the oldest son, was driving. Nearing the
crossing the young man hrard the dan
ger signal and tried to check his team,
which, however, became unmanageable
and dashed on to the track. This cross
ing Is particularly dangerous as tre s
fringe the railroads almost to the cross
ing which is also partly hidden behind a
curve.
Fifty yards from the place the engin
eer, Abram Iarrim, reversed his lever,
having given the usual danger signal,
but too late to do any good. The ground
for some distance pr sented a gory sight
The bodies were gathered up after muc h
searching and taken to the morgue wher>
the nine memba-s of the same famllv
made a gruesome spectacle.
The infant, which was horribly
shocked, lay like a wax figure in it's
mother's arms. Every window in the
passenger coaches was broken and th?
engine's pilot demolished. The engineer
is absolved from blame for the accident.
The father and one child remain of a
family of twelve.
Will Reach Sixty Feet, Though No Se
rious Damage Is Expected—No CV.su
Clnclnnatl. Feb. 24.—The Ohio river is
still rising at the fate of two inches an
hour, which has been the rat1, for the
past twelve hours. At 8 o'clock tonight
E8 feet 4 inches was the stage Although
the river Is falling at Pittsburg, It will
take until Friday or Saturday for the
crest of the rise to pass here under the
most favorable circumstances. The six
•ty-foot stage will he reached early to
morrow morning. The gymnasium
grounds, the base ball park, the Dud
low lagoon and Cooney Island are all
more or less under water. The expen
sively constructed Gest street tunnel and
bridge is being rapidly undermined and is
In great danger.
Forty families applied at on? charitable
Institution today for relief on account of
high water driving them from horn •.
The suburbs of Dayton and Dellevue
have been cut oft from street car con
nection at Newport, and travel is now
by flatboad- The western part of New
port Is suffering greatly. The police re
port at 8 o'clock that over 100 families
have been driven from their homes by the
water, and that the sixty-foot stage, ex
pected by morning, would reach as many
more. The police force of Newport Is oc
cupied in patrolling the submerged dis
tricts In skiffs and seeing that all desti
tutes are provided with shelter an.l food.
Jn Covington about twenty-five fami
lies moved out. At Riverside the town
hall lias been opened for suffeiers, but
only a few have asked for its shelter.
There have been some narrow escapes
from drowning, but no fatalities at all.
OHIO STILL
altles Repartee).
HOW THE MATTER STANDS.
Washington. D. C., Feb. 24.—The senate
committee on foreign relation)) will hold a
special meeting tomorrow morning at
which it is understood that an effort will
be made to recall the resolution imported
today requesting the president to demand
the immediate release of Jose Sanguilly.
Spain has promised to release this pris
oner. Mr. Olney holds that If the senate
resolution passes the department efforts
will be embarrassed. If the attempt Is
made to recall the action of the commit
tee it will be antagonized by several In
fluential members of the committee.
AN EXTRA SESSION.
Of Congress Called By Grover Cleveland
For March 4th.
Washington, Feb. 24.—President Cleve
land today Issued his proclamation con
vening the senate in extra session at noon
on March 4, "To participate in the Inai (ju
ration of the president of the United
States, and to confirm Ills cabinet."
SIX*”PERSONS KILLED.
London, Feb. 24.—Twenty tons of nltro
glycerine exploded at the Nobels explo
sive factory, at Stevenson, this morning,
killing six persons. The shock was tre
mendous beyond description. All the
windows in a mllrc’d train a dozen miles
away were smashed.VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1897.-SIXTEEN PAGES.
NUMBER 34
SCENT OF BLOOD AFAR OFF
Pent Up Anger Let Loose by
Chivalrous Senators.
HIGH HANDED DESPOTISM
On the Part of Spain Has Called for Words of
Grave Import.
DISGRACE 10 AMERICA AND HER FLAG
The Unwarranted Imprisonment of Our
Citizens by Castile, and Other Outra
ges Bitterly Denounced by Mon
of All Parties.
Washington, Feb. 25.—With an appa
rent disregard to whether the appropria
tion bills, still unacted on by the senate,
are to be passed at this session, or are to
be relegated to the house In extra session,
the senate today by a vo-te of forty to
twenty-seven laid aside the Indian ap
propriation bill which had already occu
pied three days and took up the joint
resolution which had been reported yes
terday from the committee on foreign
relations demanding the immediate and
unconditional release of Julio Sangullly
from a Cuban fortress.
It came up, in the first instance, as part
of the morning business, the vice-presi
dent deciding that under the rule a mo
tion to take up the Indian bill was not
in order until after the morning business
was disposed of, and w'hen at 1 p. m,, the
morning hour did expire, a motion to pro
ceed with the Sangullly joint resolution
was made by Mr. Allen, populist of Ne
braska, and although it was resisted by
the chairman of the committee on appro
priations, Mr. Allison, and was voted
against by the chairman of the commit
tee on. foreign relations. Mr. Sherman,
it prevailed by the vote above mentioned.
The debate from the first was of a
rather exciting character. Mr. Alien
spoke of Spain as ‘‘a decaying mon
archy, a blot on the map of the world
and a disgrace to civilization.”
Mr. Daniel went over the story of the
ease. Sanguilly was, he said, wounded
and sick in prison
He had been treated harshly, cruelly
and brutally—In a manner that was a dis
grace to this century and to civilization.
Not only that, but the American consul
had been treated arrogantly by the Span
ish authorities—not only in his own per
son, but in his own country. He had
been told by a Spanish officer high, in
authority, to whom he had made a polite
appeal that his conduct in presenting an
intervention in favor of Sanguilly by or'
der of the state department was a dis
grace to the United States and to the
American flag.
"If that consul,” Mr. Daniel declared,
"had demanded his passport, ond if the
Spanish government had failed to apolo
gize for that Insult to our representative
and to our flag, and an American fleet
hiad been senit to Havana to demand it,
I do not believe there is a single citizen of
the United States who would not have
rejoiced at it.”
Mr. Hale asked Mr. Daniel whether
the purport, of the joint resolution was
the release of Sangullly.
“That is the purport of It,” Mr. Daniel
admitted.
Mr. Hale—Has mot this whole, matter
been the subject of direct diplomatic ne
gt tia.tion between the state department
and the' Spanish government for the pur
pose of securing the release of Sangnilly?
If so. will the semiaitpir stole what has
been the reecflt? Is tt not a fact at the
present mtmtlnt the state department
has conducted the negotiation. to the
point that it is expecting this release of
Snnguiliy within a few days?
Before Mr. Daniel had time to answer
the question Mr. Dodge crossed the aisle
and made a whispered suggestion to him,
and Mr. Daniel replied that he had no
such knowledge.
“Has there been," said Mr. Hale, “nlo
communication from- the Eoomtary of
state tin the committee on foreign rela
tions stating that he Is expecting that
Sanquilly will be released!, through the
ordinary efforts of diplomacy, within a
few- days?”
“Not within my knowledge.” Mr. Daniel
replied; and Mr. Dodge also added his
negation.
“T ask the senator,” Mr. Hate perse
vered, “amid i ask the senator from Ohio
(Sherman) whether he had not a letter
on the subject from the state depart
ment?”
“I musts decline,” said Mr. Daniel,
“furnishing information which c-an by
easily a?tten at the state department.”
“But the senator will recollect,” said
Mr. Hale, In remomBtratlve tones, "that
-the committee on foreign relations is the
organ of tlhds body.”
“I am not bound to yield my lime on
the floor on that account,” Mr. Daniel
interrupted. "I am the organ of the
organ of the state which 1 am represent
ing, and when 1 get through I will yield
to any organ that ma,y desire to be heard,
whether it be the organ of the captain
general of Cuba, or of th£ queen of
Spain or any one else.”'
When a 'laugh followed this pointed al
lusion, Mr. Daniel promptly disclaimed
anything offensive.
“I could say something offensive,” Mr.
Hale remarked, “if I wanted to, but I
will not do so.”
“I could not,” Mr. Daniel politely re
plied, "even I desired to.”
“I hop-,’’ said Mr. Hale, “that before
the discussion ends (and it will not end in
one or two days) the committee on for
eign relations will put the senate in pos»
session of what the state department
is doing in the way of the release of
Sanguilly, if that he the object of the
joint resolution.”
Mr Daniel—The state department has
been dealing with thl3 matter, diplomat
ically. two years, and two years is long
enough for this government to get a
United States citizen out of prison.
When Mr. Hale read a telegram from
Havana stating tnat sanguilly’s appeal
to Madrid had been withdrawn so as to
facilitate his release, his colleague, Mr.
Frye, denounc-d that withdrawal as a
wicked and unjust act on the part of
Sanguilly's counsel, and declared (with
an accompaniment of applause from the
galleries) that If he had his way, a ship
of war would Sturt forthwith for Ha
vana.
Mr. Hale regarded that outburst as tell
ing the whole story. What his colleague
and other senators wanted was war;
but the country would not be drawn Into
war In the next seven days If he (Hale)
could help It.
Mr. Hoar showed from the committee's
own report that Sangullly had b*en only
two months, instead of five years In the
United States, when he got his natural
ization papers; had then left the coun
try and had never returned (having lived
In Cuba for the last eight.en years) that
the naturalization papers were fnaudu
lent; and that Sangullly was no more an
American citizen than Mr. Daniel was
the subject* of Turkey.
Senators Lodge and Daniel denied the
right of the senate to go between the
record of the superior court of New York
from which the papers had been Issued.
Mr. Teller characterized the conduct
of tihe state department as “pusillani
mous" and said that he expected nothing
better from the next administration. lie
declared h-; would make every power In
the world respect American citizens “If
ft should take all the money, all the ships
and all the men that the country had."
When Mr. Teller finished his remarks
Mr. Allen alluded to the fact that the
discussion had b en going on for the last
hour on the Indian appropriation bill,
and he moved that that bill be laid aside
and that the tjangullly resolution be
taken up. The motion was agreed to—
yeas, 40; nayts 27, as follows:
Y*as—Allen, Bacon, Berry. Blackburn,
Blanchard, Brown, Butler, Call, Cam
eron, Cannon, Carter, Chandler, Dani I,
Davis, DUbois, Gallinger, Hansbrough,
Hill, Jones, Nevada; Kenney, Lindsay,
Lodge, Mantle, Martin, Mills, Morgan,
Murphy, Pasco, Pcffer, Pritchard, Roach,
Squire, Stewart, Teller, Thurston, Tur
pie, Vest, Voorhees, Walthall, Wilson—
40.
Nays—Aldrich, Allison, B'ak r, Bate,
Burrows, C'afTery, Chilton, Cullom, Gib
son, Gorman, Gray, Hale, Hawley. Hoar,
Jones, Arkansas; McMiilin, Mitchell,
Wisconsin; Palmer, Perkins, Pettigrew,
Platt, Proctor, Pugh, Quay, Sewall, Sher
man, Wetmore—27.
So the Sanguilly joint resolution was
again tak n up formally.
Allusions by Senators Hill and White
to the Inconsistency of Mr. Sh man in
having the joint resolution yesterday re
ported and expressing the hope that the
senate would piass it today and then vot
ing today against taking it up, brought
Mr. Sherman to his feet. He sold: "The
senator from California seems to desire
(Continued on Second Page.)
Will Be R qulred to Meet the Sundry
Civil Appropriations as Reported
by the Senate Committee.
ONE MILLIONS
Washington, Feb. 25.—The senate com
mittee on appropriations today linished
the sundry civil appropriation bill.
Among the additions made by the com
mute- were the following: Completing
approaches to and grounds,'Charleston,
S. C„ postofflce, $12,000; Nicaragua canal
commission—continuing surveys and ex
aminations to having plans for the entire
work of construction, $150,000. The pres
ident is to appoint three ■engineers as a
commission. The employes of congr-ss
are given the month's extra pay that Is
customary at the end of the session. Im
proving and completing roadways to na
tional cemetery, Pensacola, Fla., $10,000,
A new piece of legislation provid s that
hereafter the secretary of war shall an
nually submit estimates In detail for
river and harbor improvements required
for the ensuing fiscal y ar to th secre
tary of the treasury to be included in
and carried into the sum total of the
book of estimates >and all such river and
harbor estimat- s shall be considered and
reported on in a separate bill by the com
mittee of each house having charge of
river and harbor improvements.
The reduction fell heaviest upon the
items for continuing rlyer and harbor
improvements under the contract system.
The southern items follow:
Harbor at Savannah from $400,000 to
$300,000.
Cumberland sound, Georgia and Flor
ida, from $400,000 to $300,000.
Winawaye bay, South Carolina, from
$400,000 to $300,000.
Sabine Pass, Texas, from $400,000 to
$300,000.
Bayou Piaquemine, La., from $400,000
to $300,000.
Cumberland river, above Nashville by
construction of locks and dams, from
$400,000 to $300,000.
Falls of Ohio at Louisville, fiotn $400,000
to $300,000.
The senate made a net addition to the
bill of $1,162,883, the total carried being
$51,827,727. The act for the current year
carries $33,09P,710.
Total increase amounts to $3,153,252,
and the total reduction to $2,619,168.
THREE PEOPLE KILLED
And Two Others Fatally Injured and
an Electric Ca.r Smashed Into
Kindling Wo>odi
Chicago, Feb. 25.—A northbound train,
cm the Chicago .-lin'd' Eastern Illinois rail
road,, aind the Columbia Heights race
train, southbound, on the same road,
simuitaneouE jy struck a Calumet electric
car at the Ome-Hundred-and-Thlrd street
crossing this afternoon. The motorman
and two passengers were imtsta.ntly killed,
two other passengersTrobably fatally in
jured and the oar smashed into kindling
wiclod. The tlhree persons killed wore
so badly mangled as to be unrecogniza
ble. The injured are:
Mrs. Mansfield, wife of the editor of
the Rnseland, (111.,) Enterprise, thrqwn
200 feet; probably fatally injured.
Robert I-Hinpia. a m!i>tornr»aJX on the road,
probably fatally Injured.
The railway people claim that the gates
were down anid that the motorman lost
control of his oar, which crashed through
the gates. The northbound train amt
the race train meet the crossing at the
same time every day. They were due at
t/hie time tihe electric car struck the gate*.
The oar was squarely In the middle of
the tracks when the two trains struck
it, completely demolfeibiing It.
Chicago, 111., Feb. 25.—Following Is a
corrected list of the casualties;
DEAD
George O’Malley, motorman.
Peter Fueherprince, a cattle buyer.
R. \V. Young, a collector.
THE INJURED:
Robert Hines, employe of the Calumet
company may die.
Henry Madison, conductor on the elec
tric car; recovery' doubtful.
Mary Mochelle, Internal Injuries and se
rious bruises; may not recover.
F. A. Young, fireman, Chicago and
Eastern Illinois; will recover.
Eight or ten passengers were on hoard
the motor and all were more or less In
jured. The engines of the two railway
trains were also damaged and the fire
man on the outbound suburban was
thrown to the ground and severely hurt.
The motorman was lying under the front
plutform of his car and was crushed to
death.
DEADLY NITRO-GLYCERINE.
Steubenville, O., Feb. 25.—A vast quan
tity of n1 tiro-glycerine, stored between
Gould Station aind New Alexandria, O.,
on the Pan Handle rail-road, In the Gould'
field, exploded this afternoon at I o’clock,
kilting two ruein and injuring a number
of others. Both men were blown to at
oms, oniy a. man's toe being found.
Houses were knocked down, and -trees
were tom up. The report of the explos
ion was heard ten miles away. The two
men kilted were named Dreary and Ro-lsi
tMn oil well drillers.
JOSE SANGUILLY PARDONED
Queen Regent Has Signed the
Document.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
Of this Action Will Be Made in Madrid News
papers Today—Tetuan Cabled the Above
to Minister Delome.
Washington, Feb. 25.—Senor DeLome,
the Spanish minister residing here, states
tonight, that he has received an official
cablegram from Madrid that the quesn
regent has signed the pardon of Josts
’Sangullly. The further statement is
made that this action was taken by the
Spanish cabinet last week, and will be
published officially in the Madrid news
papers tomorrow.
The telegram conveying this informa
tion to Senor De Lome is signed by( Tet
uan, Spanish minister of foitign affairs.
BRYAN AT NEW HAVEN.
Made Two Speeches to Large Audiences
—Police Escort to Prevent Violence.
New Haven, C'or.n., Feb. 25.—W. J. Bry
an deliveretLa lecture on bimetallism be
fore an audience of about 1,000 peisons
at the Hyperion theater here this even
ing. He arrived at 4:15 from New York.
Mr. Bryan late tonight spoke briefly
before the Retail Merchants’ association
at their annual banquet.
Mr. Bryan feared violence from Yale
students, and was escorted from '.he ho
tel to the theater by a body guard of fivo
policemen.
COTTON ON FIRE.
Warehouse Badly Damaged, But Result
to Contents Not. Known.
Norfolk, Va., Feb. 25.—Fire broke out
this morning at 10 o'clock tin the cotton
warehouse of I. B. Lo & Co., and Jones
& Sons, and although the department
was assisted by fire tugs, three hours
work was necessary to subdue the flames.
The damage to the building Is $1,530,
fully covered by Insurance.
’The stock is valued at $30,000 and the
extent of damage thereto cannot be as
certained until the smouldering cotton is
i moved. It Is insured fully, however.
Tonight the Are again broke out but
was soon subdued.
AT THE END OF AlOPE®
Doubtless Swings Charley Brown, a Ne
gro Rapist -and Murderer, Near
Chattanooga—In the Hands of
a Howling, Infuriated Mob.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Feb. 25.—At Rath
bon, twenty miles north from Chattanoo
ga, a double tragedy was enacted this af
ternoon, only meagre details of which
have reached this city, as an infuriated
mob has possession of the place and Jeal
ously seeks to suppress the facts. Char
ley Brown, a negro roustabout, accosted
a white girl of a respectable family of
miners named Martin in the wooded out
skirts of the town and criminally assault
ted her, but the girl resisted stoutly. Her
cries Anally attracted attention and the
negro tied.
Constable John Sadler and Deputy Sher
iff William Hallett had the fiend at bay
but Brown drew a pistol, shot the con
stable and fatally wounded him. He
made his escape, but was retaken by a
posse of citizens. They brought him to
Ra.thbon and lodged him in a one-room
log hou-e in the center of the town.
A howling mob composed of the tough
est characters in this mining community
is guarding the house and the town has
gone wild. The negro has made a clean
confession of his guilt and there arc no
hopes that the rioters will spare his life.
It is reported here that he has been
taken to the woods where the assault was
committed and hung to a tree. The pas
sions of the populace are doubly inamed
by the recent memory of a similar oc
currence where:n a constable was shot
down from ambush by an escaped pris
oner and while in the shadow of the gal
lows was pardoned by the governor.
No request for aid has come to Sheriff
Bush In this city. As there is but one
officer and no prison in the town no power
short of the militia could save the brute
who Is now doubtless at the rope’s end.
WATER AT CINCINNATI
Now Nearly 61 Feet and Great Damage
Reported—Little Freight Being
Handled—Stand Still Expected.
Cincinnati. O., Feb. 25.—At ? o’clock to
night the Ohio river was sixty feet eight
and a quarter Inches and rising only at
the rate of three-quarters of an Inch per
hour. A stand-still will undoubtedly be
reached before midnight.
A careful estimate made tonight puts
the number of families driven from home
at 900 in Newport alone. The damage In
that city will not fall below $150,000.
All railroads are still using temporary
depots.
very little freight la being handled.
The Big Fbur grain elevator has shut
down.
As many Cincinnati voting places are
engulfed there promises to be great con
fusion at the republican primaries to
morrow.
A conservative estimate places the
number of families in the east end of the
city 'that have been driven from home or
to upper stories at 30ft
The plant of the S. B. Clapp Ammonia
company, northw-st corner of St. An
drews and Keck, streets, Pendleton, was
destroyed by tire this morning. Boss
$12,000. The building was completely
surrounded by the flood and the fire en
gine horses had to go through nearly
four feet of water to get to the scene.
The firemen had tcj ride out in boats to
get the hose near enough to play on the
flames. The Are was caused by the high
water coming In contact with a lot of
unslacked lime In the building.
CONFESSED A CRIME.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 25.—A special from
Athens. Ga., to the Constitution says that
Grady Reynolds, of Bolton, has confessed
to murdering his partner, M. C. Hunt.
ReynoMa and hunt were trading and ped
dling In the country. Reynolds says that
he killed Hunt anithrew his body In the
Oconee river. 9?
MURRAY Of SOUTH CAROLINA
Prefers Serious Charges Against
State Officers,
GROSSEST IRREGULARITIES
In the Manner of Holding Elections in that
State, Claimed—150,000 Voters Dis
franchised.
Washington, Feb. 25.—The house com
mittee on elections of president, vice
president and members of congress to
day gave a further hearing on the peti
tions presented to the house by Mr. Mur
ray, of South Carolina, making certain
charges of fraud regarding the elections
In that state under the new constitution
and requesting a iotigressional investiga
tion of the matter.
Mr. Wilson (dem. S. C.) spoke on the
legal aspects of the ca.se, holding that
congress had no right to Investigate. The
milk in the coeoanut, he said, was that
Mr. Murray and his co-contestants de
sired their testimony to be backed up
by evidence collected by congress. This
they would use in the contested elec
tion case cif Mr. Murray when brought
before the house. He explained the re
quirements as to registration as being
drawn in the interest of the illiterate.
He did not approve the plan of investi
gation suggested by Mr. Murray. Un
der it the house only would be considered
and a report would be made to it. This
would not be binding upon the hous?.
The proper procedure would be to have
a joint committee investigate. Mr. Mur
ray followed Mr. Wilson. He was net
asking the investigation for his own
benefit, but for the citizens of South
Carolina.
He had made a successful contest be
fore the house heretofore, and his case
for the next congress was already made
up.
If time were only given he would pre
sent to the hous' th p tl'tions of 150,000
citizens from all sections of the state
praying for a republican' form of govern
ment, as was guaranteed them by the
constitution.
Mr. Tucker (dem., Va.) asked if the peo
pl • who had sign d these memorials had
been disfranchised.
Mr. Murray replied that they had been
and added that people who had passed
examination!! for school teachers hid
been treated in th same way, being
classed with the illiterate.
Under the present state of affairs
thousands of negroes had been refused
registration. There was a deep-seated
conspiracy to deprive a large portion of
the citizens of this state of the right to
vote. In his district alone over 10,000
had been refused registration. The only
remedy was to apply to congress for re
li f. The sufferers of the state thought
It the duty of congress to investigate the
matter and if in its power tv> remedy it
by legislation. No relief could be ob
taln-d in the courts. If congress would
make the Investigation it wan id satisfy
all concerned and they would accept the
result as final and binding.
A question was asked as to the tak
ing of the oath by th members of the
constitutional convention and Murray re
quested Mr. Smalls, ex-member of con
gress, and a member of the convention to
answer it. Mr. Smalls said that when
a portion of the delegates to the conven
tion had taken the oath Senator Tillman
held that It was unnecessary arid the
roll call was suspended, and the matter
ref rred to the Judiciary. The commit
tee reported that it was unnecessary to
take the oath.
The committee adjourned until tomor
row.
NEWS FROM HAVANA
Larne Excuse For Lee’s Reported Resig
nation-—Mrs. Rodriguez Allowed
to Remove.
Havana, Feb. 25.—La Luchia, eommeir.jt
li:g on the report from New York an
t’.uunei.ng Con ml Generali Lee’s alleged
resignation, pretends to explain the cause
of his reported retirement from office.
It say© that General Lee’s position would
be untenable with tihe advent of the Mc
Kinley administration, amd he wteihed
to auiiiolpate a possible Intimation he
might receive from Mr. McKinley that
his resignation would be accepted.
The same paper contains an editorial
discussing the action of the correspond
ent of El Liberal, of Madrid, in going
to see the rebel commander-in-Chief, Go
mez, in his camp.
Consul General Lee has obtained the
consent of Marquis De Ailiumada, who
is now acting to, the place of Captain Gen
eral Weyler, to the return to his former
h-c-me in the United State® of Mrs. Rod
riguez. who was recently arrested in Pu
erto Principe, because her husba/nd was
a rebel.
The Venezuelan general, Fernando Al
varez. and three other men who were
arrested in v. boat fr:m a filibustering ex
pedition a year ago, have been tried by
court-martial and sentenced to life im
prisonment.
The lawyer who has been acting for
Sanguilly, tihe American citizen who is
now under sentence of life imprisonment,
has withdrawn from- tihe appeal that was
sent to Madrid.
Clee-O nstU General Springer arrived
here today.
THE TURF,
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, Feb. 5.—Fine weather,
an attendance of 3,000 and a heavy track
marked today's sport. Four favorites
won, and tho public beat the bookies.
First Race—Six furlongs. Ettarre, 100
(A. Barrett), 3 to 1, won; Laura Davis
second, Baal Gad third. Time. 1:23.
Second Race—Four furlongs, Oninoor,
103 (C. Relff), 7 to 10, won; Eulalia sec
ond, Scott Newman third. Time, 0:54%.
Third Race—iMlle and a sixteenth.
Dave Pulslfer, 115 (C. Relff), 1 to 4, won;
Otho second. Sir John third. Time, 2:01%.
Fourth Race—Six furlongs. Prince
Proverb, 101 (Hlrsch), 12 to 1, won; Glen
Albyn second, Senator Penrose third.
Time, 1:23.
Fifth Race—Seven furlongs. Bustup,
98 (Dean), 5 to 2, won; Dr France sec
ond, James V. Carter third. Time, 1:40.
Sixth Race—One mile. Favorlne, 101
(C. Relff), even, won; C. C. Rumrill sec
ond, Newhouse third. Time, 1:55%.
’FRISCO RESULTS. .
San Francisco, Cal., Feb. 25.—Weather
fine; track fast. Three favorites won.
F!ry>' Race—Mile. Imp. Iry, 1G4 v'Ptr
gott), 75 to 1, won; Peter II., second; Lo
gan, third. Time. 1:43%.
Second ljja.ee—Mile and a sixteenth.
Salvable, 109 (Martin), 8 to 5, won; Ar
gentina, second; Lincoln II., third. Time,
1:48%.
Third Race—Six furlongs, selling. Clis
ele B., 100 (Barringer), 10 to 1, won;
Woodchopper, second; Meadowlark,
third. Time, 1:13%.
Fourth Race—Six furlongs, selling: Ye
men, 105 (Sloan), 9 to 10, won; Major
Cook, second; Jack O'Lanters, third.
Time, 1:15%.
Fifth Race—Five furlongs, purse. Cel
oso, 96 (Sloan), 3 to 2, won; Miss Ross,
second; Sallie Cllquot, third. Time,
1:03 Vi.
Sixth Race—Mile and a quarter, sellr
Ing. Foremost, 106 (Sloan), 6 to 1, won;
Can't Dance, second; Morte Fonso, third.
Time, 2:10.
Seventh Race—Five furlongs, purse.
Magnet, 113 (Slaughter), even, won; Fly,
second; Dunboy, third. Time, 1:02%.
Memphis Mhy Be the Next Meeting Place
—Old Officers Re-Elected.
Charleston, S. C., Feb. 25.—The Sou'h
crn Ice Exchange adjourned, its annual
convention, after having one short ses
sion here this morning. The leading
question discussed was the advisabllty of
making the organization national In
name and charcter. It was agreed final
ly to retain the present name for the
time being, and to appoint a committee
to consider the question later. The exe
cutive committee was authorized to se
lect the place for the next meeting.
Memphis made a bid for the convention,
and it will probably be held in that city.
All the existing officers of the exchange
were re-elected, as follows: R. C. Graves,
Memphis, president; T. P. Hart, New
Orleans, vice-president, and E. B. Ragan,
Atlan ti, secretary and treasurer.
Three Spanish Generals Encounter His
Forces Killing and Wounding Many
—Cisueros Death Discredited.
Washington, D. C„ Feb. 25.—Senor
Depuy de Dome, Spanish minister, has re
ceived the following cable from Duke of
Tptuar., Spanish minister of foreign af
fairs;
To Spanish Minister, Washington, D. C.:
The brigades of Generals fiasco, Ruiz
and Segura met in succession the forces
commanded by Maximo Gomez, defeating
them1 and obliging them to disperse in re
treat. Twenty dead were counted and a
great number of rebels were wounded.
Four battalions occupy all the passes to
Mantanzas and I.as Villas and prevent
the retreat of Gomez to the west. The
trocha of Jucaro almost completely closed
makes it very difficult for him to retreat
to the earit. Seven columns are operating
between these lines in pursuit of (limez.
(Signed) TETUAN.
SOUR GRAPES RATHER.
Madrid, Feb. 25.—The Epooa, in art ar
ticle discussing the Cuban situation aa
affecting the relations of Spain with the
United States, alludes to the killing of
Ricardo Ruiz, an American citizen, in a
Spanish prison in Cuba and says: The
Ruiz affair cannot assume the propor
tions of international Importance. Spalani
Is ready to punish any persons who shall
be proved to have ill-treated Ruiz and
the friendly relations between Spain and
the government at Washington preclude
any diplomatic strain over the matter.
THE BERMUDA CDOSEDY WATCHED
HaJifaxi N. S., Feb. 25.—A special ca
ble from Bermuda says the steamer Ber
muda, of filibuster note, sailed this after
noon, having cleared for Fernamd.ina,
Fla. She was closely watched iluiing
her stay at Bermuda, and the British of
ficers had been given ordure to fire on
the vessel from the forte if ehe attempted
to leave without clearing the custom
house.
ICE MEN AGAIN.
GOMEZ
IN
Madrid, Feb. 25.
DOUBT ITS CORRECTNESS.
Nejv York, Feb. 25.—Nothing has been
heard at the offices of the Cuban unfa,
this momtag of then lleged death of Presi
dent Cisneros, of thte Cuban republic.
The officers of the junta are Inclined1
to doubt the story.
FOR THE THIRD TIME
Daughters of the American Revolution
Elect Mrs. Stevenson.
Washington, Feb. 25.—The Daughters
of the American Revolution today re
elected Mrs. Vlce-Presldrnt Stevenson
for the third time as president general;
Mrs. Brackett, of Washington, as vlce
presid.nt general, and one vice president
from each of the states represented.
Aiy.ong them are the following: Mrs.
R. Thatcher, Louisiana; Mrs. W. P. Dix
ey, Georgia; Mrs. Joseph Washington,
Tennessee. »
POOR STEINITZ.
London, Feb, 25.—It is now well estab
lished that the recent report of the death
of Stelnitz, the chess master, was errone
ous. A dispatch to the Central News
from Berlin says that friends of his In
that city have received information, from
Moscow that he is alive, but suffering
from an; incurable ulceration of the brain.
The rumor of his death probably arose
front the fact that he recently swooned
and was unci>n«cIctus flor a long time.
Since then his condition has become
worse He has forgotten all about chess
playing and occupies the intervals be
tween his attacks of delerlum in writ
ing what he- imagine® to be essays om<
philosophy and discussing the day of his
return to New York.
A REMARKABLE RUN.
Norfolk, Va„ Feb. 25.—Torpedo boat No.
6 arrived here tonight ait 8 o'clock after a
remarkable run of eleven hours and fifty
jr.'inutees between Sandy Hook and Cape
Henry. She used only two-thirds power
and a steam pres us re of one hundred
and thirty pounds. Thick wealllj
er was encountered., but despite this, and
deranged oomipatsess, the vessel main
tained am average speed of twenty-three
knots an hour. Her passage through
Hampton Roads was necessarily slow.
She will leave the Norfolk navy yard at
10 o'O'lock tomorrow manning and proceetj.
to Washington, after coaling at Lam
bert's Point1.
AN EDITRESS WEDS.
Baltimore, Md., Feb. 25.—Mrs. Jennie
F. Abel, widow of George W. Abel, for
years editor of the Sun. and one of the
foremost Journalists bf the country, was
married today to Mr. William Bernard
Duke, of the bicycle firm of Efirman &
Duke. The cer mony was performed at
fi o'clock this morning by the Rev.
Father O'Keefe, pastor of the Catholic
church at Ton-son, In the Sisters chapel,
In the residence of the sisters. The c-re
mony was private, only a few relatives
and Intimate friends of the bride and
groom being present.
OFF TO MOBILE.
Key West, Fla., Feb. 25.—The cruiser
Marblehead arrived here from Jackson
ville this morning and relieved the cruiser
Montgomery which left this afternoon for
Mobile, Ala. '
KING GEORGEJTANDS FIRM
Will Not Recede from His Pres
ent Policy.
PROPOSAL OF THE POWERS
Looked i as a Mere Makeshift and Not At
All Acceptable.
HIS.o'/LINESS HAS BEEN APPEALED TO
f —
B'® ie Archbishop of Athens to Secure a
?
ust Solution—England Announces
Her Negotiations with the
Powers—The Remedy.
London, Feb. 26.—1 a. m.—A dispatch
from Athens to the Central N ws says
that King George and his cabin t pro
claim their resolve to maintain their
present policy. They declare that it Is
Impossible Air them to recall th Grc* lc
troops from Crete.
The Athens correspondent of the Stand
ard telegraphs that It Is reported that
Coi. Smolentz, minister of war, has re
new. d his offer to resign. There are signs
that the remainder of the cabinet are In
clined to take a similar step, but any
indication of retreat from the king's pol
icy would Involve the greatest danger to
the thronle. It is therefore unlikely
that there will be any fullering In the
highest quarters. There is doubtless
a grim popular determination to follow
the sacrifices already made to th bitter
end. An expression of'the exasperation
felt at the attitude of the powers was
giv.n today when 300 volunteers who
had bo n prevented by the warships from
landing In Crete marched through th
streets accompanied by military bands.
It Is understood that the note of the pow
ers arrived today and that It will be pre
sented to the government t morrow.
The r ply will probably be dictat'd by
the resolution of the Cretans to yield only
to superior force.
The proposals of th powers is regarded
as a precarious makeshift which will not
end the crisis. The Homan Catholic
archbishop of Athens has sent d tails of
the sufferings of the Cr tans to the pope
praying that he use his best offices to
procure an equitable solution of the
trouble.
The blockade of Cret- is now being
strictly maintained. The scarcity of
provisions is beginning to be felt. The
foreign admirals have stopped all com
munications betw- en the Gre k w. rshtp
and Col. Vassos, the commander of the
Greek army of occupation,
A British torpedo boat has undertaken
to convey communications from Col Vas
sos to Athens.
ENGLAND'S ATTITUDE
Made Known In the House of Lords By
Salisbury—Force If Necessary.
London, Feb. 25.—There was a large
attendance of peers and visitors at the
opening of the sitting of the house of
lords this afternoon. Several peercses
were present and a number of bishops
other than, those entitled to sit In the
house of lords, together with members of
the house of commons looked on fr m the
galleries. Soon after the house came to
order Lord Dunraven rose and made a
formal request that the government in
form the house as to the exact situation
in Crete and the government’s negotia
tion with the powers looking to a solu
tion of the difficulties. Lord Salisbury
upon rising to reply wag cheered and
when the cheering stopped said that a
telegram had been sent to the British rep
resentative at the capital of each of the
combined European powers, the phrase
ology of which was as follows:
Inform the government to which you
are accredited that Her Majesty's gov
ernment propose to make the following
declaration of the policy they Intend to
pursue which they believe to be In ac
cordance with that ot their allies:
First, that the establishment of admin
istrative autonomy in Crete Is neccessary
to the termination of international occu
pation of that island.
Second, that subject to such system of
administrative autonomy Crete ought to
remain a portion of the Turki-h empire.
Third, that the governments of Turkey
and Greece ought to be informed of this
resolution.
Fourth. That if either Turkey or Greece
should persist In a refusal when required
to withdraw her naval and military
forces from the inland, the powers should
impose their decision by force.
Lord Salisbury said that it did not
follow that the Turkish troops would be
withdrawn from Crete immediately:
nevertheless the practical withdrawal of
her troops from the island was a neces
sary condition to the establishment of
autoinomy, and they would therefore be
withdrawn.
The premier then gave as instances of
autonomy administration the form of
government which now obtains in the
Island of Samoa, a Turkish possession,
and which formerly prevailed in Servli,
and proceeded to say he Imagined that
the powers would require the Greek
troops In Crete to he withdrawn at an
earlier date than the Turkish troops; but
he was unable to give any further d tails
until he knew what decision had been
reached by the powers. Still it was his
belief that the powers recognized the
ptlnciples he had announced as ani
mating their policy.
Loid Kimberly, who was minister of
foreign affairs in the cabinet of Lord
Salisbury, said that the statement just
made by Lord Salisbury was one of great
gravity amd would require careful con
sideration on his> part before he felt pre
pared to make any observations thereon.
The house then adjourned.
The whole Incident occupied twenty
minutes. Subsequently the Earl of Kim
berly held a conference with Sir William
Harcourt in a private room.
The conservatives are unanimous In
the approval of the method of settlement
of the Cretan difficulties.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
Also Crowded on the Occasion of Defln
tn the Government's Policy.
London, Feb. 25.—The floor and gal
leries of the house of commons were
crowded with members and spectators at
the opening of today’s sitting. In view
of the announcement in the newspapers
this mornring that the government would
define their policy in regard to Crete.
Shortly after the speaker bad taken his
seat, Right Horn A. J. Balfour, first lord
of the treasury and the government lead
er Inithe house of commons, made a state
ment similar to tihie <>ne made by Lord
(Continued on Fifth Page.)BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM,„ ALA., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1897. NUMBER 35
MORE ANGRY AND EXCITED
Was the Discussion on Cuba In
l the Senate.
MORGAN ON HIS METTLE
Was In a Very Unconriliatory Mood and Spoke
His Opinions Freely.
HIS BITTEREST WORDS FOR GROVFR
Described Him as a “Sluggard sleeping and
Bnoosing While Americans Suffered.”
Hepublicans In High Feather
On the Single Standard.
Washington, Feb. 26.—The senate had
the Indian appropriation bill before it
throughout today’s session; but that fact
did not prevent Cuba and the Sanguiliy
case from being fought, over even in a
more angry and excited manner^ than
it had been yesterday. At the very open
ing Mr. Frye, (rep. of Maine), referred to
the dispatch announcing Sanguilly’s re
lease today and deprecated further dis
cussion of the matter, saying that for his
part he did not believe in wasting pow
der simply for the purpc.se of making
a noise.
The Sanguilly resolution having been
sent to the calendar, two other resolu
tions as to victims of Spanish cruelty
were offered—one by Mr. Morgan, (dem.
of Alabama), in the case of George Wash
ington Aguirre, and one by Mr. Call, in
relation to the suicide or murder of Dr.
Ricardo Ruiz. As to Aguirre, there were
some comments upon his baptismal
name—Mr. Morgan assuming that it
gave to Aguirre an additional claim upon
American sympathy, and Mr. Lindsay,
(dem. of Kentucky), asserting that his
surrender, under a proclamation of am
nesty, was an un-George Washington act.
A letter from Mr. Ethan Alien, of New
York, vouching for the young American,
was read, and Mr. Hoar was led, in a
jocose mood, to inquire with an air of
gravity, whether that was the Ethan Al
lan of the revolution. Mr. Morgan said
that he was the grand son of the revolu
tionary hero, and the senator added the
Information that he was the president
of the Cuban league of New York.
The storm broke out again through the
Sangutlly matter; and Senators White,
(dem. of California), and Lodge, (rep. of
Massachusetts), had some delicate spar
ring, in which Mr. White spoke ironi
cally of Mr. Lodge as one of the great
men of the world, and as knowing more
about Spanish pronunciation than all
other Spanish scholars knew This was
provoked by Mr. Lodge’s sneering at Mr.
White for pronouncing “Julio” as “Hu
llo.’*
Mr. Isidge retaliated by imputing envy
to the California senator because his long
speech yesterday had not enthused the
galleries.
When Mr. Hale, republican, appealed to
the senators to lay aside all extraneous
discussions and confine themselves to
business of appropriation hills for. the
remaining days of the session (saying
that he expected the senate to sit on
Sunday) he was cruelly ridiculed by Mr.
Morgan and told that he ought to start
out on a regular tour of lecturing, if he
could find a lot of school children for his
audience.
The Alabama senator was in a very un
conciiiatory mood. He refused angrily,
and with every mark of disrespect to per
mit either Senator Hoar or Senator Hale
to interject a remark Into his speech, blit
he reserved his bitterest words for Presi
dent Cleveland, whom he described eon
temptously as having beer, "down on his
hunkers” praying^ Spain to release San
guilly, also as “a sluggard sleeping and
snoring while Americans suffered.”
Mr. Morgan was on the floor over an
hour. After he resumed his seat, bitter
ness faded out of the debate. Instead of
it there was a windy passage between
Senators Daniel, of Virginia, and Gray,
democrat,of Delaware. When the former
used the Spanish word, Incomunlcado,
Mr. Gray feigned Ignorance of its mean
ing, and said he did not talk Spanish.
With a pleasant and gracious smile, Mr.
Daniel excused himself and said that he
thought that the senator from Delaware
had just been talking very good Spanish.
This polite retort (with its unexpressed
hut well understood meaning) provoked
an outburst of laughter on the floor and
in the galleries which we’e crowded all
day.
In the pleasanter turn which the dlseue
eion had thus taken the Cuban question
was permitted to subside; and the actual
consideration of the Indian appropriation
bill was resumed.
The bill had not been passed, when at
6 p. m, a recess was taker until 7:30 p. m.
IN THE HOUSE.
The Interpretation to be placed on the
declaration' of the platform of the re
publican •attonal committee In regard to
the -securing of an international' bimetal
lic agreement was the subject of an ani
mated, and at times, exciting debate in
the house today. The result was that, so
far as the record showed, but three re
publicans were of the opinion that the
party was committed to the single gold
standard. These were Messrs. Henry, of
Connecticut, Johnson, of Indiana, and
Qulgg, of New York. Mr Knox, of Mass
achusetts, arrayed himself In support of
the other gentlemen, but being paired did
not vote. Mr. Hill, of Connecticut, later
stated that had he been present he would
have felt It a matter of conscience and
duty to stand' with them.
The debate was had upon the senate
bill providing for the representation©!the
United States at any international con
ference to be held for the purpose of -
reaching an agreement to tlx the relative
value of gold ^nd silver, reported from
the oommlttee on coinage, weights and
measures, which Mr. C. W. St'one, re
publican. of Pennsylvania, moved to sus
pend the rules and pass. The debate
lasted two hours, and was participated
In by a dozen or more of the members.
The principal speeches against the bill
Were made by Messrs. Qulgg. republican,
of New York. Johnson, republican, of
Indiana, and Knox, republican, of Mas
sachusetts, and ini advocacy thereof by
Messrs. C. W. Stone, republican, of Penn
sylvania; McCreery, democrat, of Ken
tucky; Hepburn, republican, of Iowa;
Dlngley, republican, of Maine, and Gros
verior, republican, of Ohio.
Mr. IMngley's speech was the first he
had made for many weeks, and his ap
pearance was greeted with applause. The
bill was passed on a yea and nay vote—
27? to 3.
Thife operation of the rule permitting
motions to suspend the rules and pass
Mils began to rpn today for the remain
der of the session, and under the rule the
following measures were passed:
Setting apart a site in the city of
Washington for a memorial building to
i
be erected by the Daughters of the Amer
' lean Revolution.
Providing for arbitration of labor
troubles between the management of in
terstate commerce carriers and their em
ployes.
Prohibiting the importation of impure
and unwholesome tea.
At 5:26 p. m. the house adjourned.
NIGHT SESSION.
The first twenty minutes of the eve
ning session were devoted to the private
pension of $50 per month to Major Gen
eral Cassius M. Clay.
A resolution was adopted requesting
the house to return to the senate bill do
nating the Daughters of the American
Revolution a site in the Washington
monument grounds for the erection of a
memorial museum.
The Indian appropriation bill was then
passed and the postoffice appropriation
bill taken up.
It was laid aside, however, and the
house bill was passed authorizing the
territories to fund their indebtedness at
a lower rate of interest.
Mr. Quay, (rep of Pennsylvania), gave
notice that tomorrow he would call up
the bill to forbid the sale of liquor in the
capltol; and Mr. Hill gave notioe Isotto
voce) that he would oppose it.
At 11:40 the senate adjourned until to
morrow.
M'COOK DECLINES.
Will Not Serve as McKinley's Secretary
of the Interior.
New York, Feb. 26.—The Evening Sun
says: It w’as announced in the city to
day that Col. John J. McCook has posi
tively declined to. enter the cabinet of
President McKinley as secretary of the
interior.
The announcement Is also made that
while Gen. Stewart L Woodford Is still
a candidate for a cabinet position with
[he indorsement of the regular republican
organization, the chances are that New
York will not be represented In the cab
inet.
Whi li Maj. McKinley first asked Col.
McCook to become a member of his cab
inet no particular portfolio was men
tioned. A friend of Col. McCook said
today that he exDOOied that he would be
asked to s-rve as attorney gen ral and
this place he would ha ve accepted.
But within a day or two the colonel re
ceived a letter asking him to accept the
post of secr-tnry of the Interior. This,
it is understood, he promptly and posi
tively declined.
PLEASE BE EASY ON ’EM,
Is Virtually What Olney Requested of
Gen. Lee —Sangulliy Given His
Liberty.
Havana, Feb. 26.—It is understood here
that Secretary Olney, as further evi
dence of his and President Cleveland's
friendship for Spain, has Instructed Con
sul Gen-ral Lee to act with caution In
his dealings with the Spanish authori
ties and to spare no effort to avert fur
ther friction with them. By Spaniards
here this is taken to mean that General
Lee, to med the approbation of his supe
rior officers, must not be as persistent as
he has been heretofore in pressing for a
recognition of rights of American citi
zens.
It Is rumored that the reason why
General Lee still holds his post is that
he has been induced to do so by private
intimations from a high republican that
he will be supported by The in-coming
republican administration in upholding
American rights and honor.
•Tulio Songulliy, the American citizen
who was twice sentenced to Imprison
ment for life on the charge of being a
rebel, which chaigr was never proved
against him, was released this afternoon,
the queen regent having pardoned him,
much to the chagrin of those who were
instrumental in bringing about his eon
vlction. He at once left the Cabana for
tress where be had been confined, await
ing the result of his appeal against his
sentence, and started for hts home. He
was naturally highly elated to be at lib
erty again after helng confined for over
two years, and he was so anxious to
get to his family that he did not have
time to talk about his experiences. He
will leave tomorrow for the United States
with his family, traveling by way of
Tampa. It Is reported that he has prom
ised never to return to Cuba.
The threatened duel between Senor
Morote. the correspondent of K1 Liberal,
of Madrid, and Senor San Miguel, editor
of La Lucha, of this city, growing out of
comments on the action of Senor Morote
in visiting the camp of Maximo Gomez,
where he learned officially that the rebel
leader would not accept the Cuban re
forms will not take place, the seconds
of both having directed that Senor Mor
ote’s challenge was not justified.
SOMlGOOD ARRESTS.
Hall Thieves Run Down and Landed in
Prison -Burglar Also Captured—
Strong Proofs.
Wit
Of late numerous complaints hav« been
made to the police that hall thieves were
abroad In the city, and many coats, over
coats, hats, etc., have been stolen. A
close watch has been kept and Ithe offi
cers have arrested several parties in the
past few days and in several instances
recovered some of the stolen property.
Early last night Officers Newman and
Scott arrested Walter Foster at the.wage
on stables on Twenty-fourth street with
an overcoat he was trying to dispose of
to a countryman for $1. The negro claim
ed at first that a man had given the
coat to him to sell, but later changed
his story and said that he won It shoot
ing craps.
The coat, which is comparatively new,
bore the mark of L. Hogan, and had Dr.
Morris’ name in one of the pockets. Dr.
Morris was notified and the negro held
for trial.
A short while afterwards Officers Cul
pepper and Disheroon entered a charge
of larceny of an overcoat againsFRobert
Harris, who was fined this morning.
The overcoat was in the jail office and
J. W. Mulligan came In and identified It
as his property. He said that It was
stolen from his room, over'the Dude sa
loon. last night". Mr. Mulligan positively
Identified the coat as his and it was turn
ed over to him.
D. Shilton was arrested shortly before
midnight on a charge of larceny from
the store house of Shalian- & Co., and
Officers Culpepper and Disheroon, who
made the arrest, say they have a good
case against him.
The police authorities are determined
to break up this petty thieving and they
are doing some excellent work with that
end In view. It Is thought that most of
It Is the work of professional vagrants
and tramps.
NoixiavHxxa noa criaH_
San Francisco, Cal., Feb. 28.—Frank
Butler, who Is wanted In Australia for
many murders, and who was arersted on
the ship Swanhilda, was held for extradi
tion today by United States Comimsslon
er Peacock" on two charges of murder,
that of Capt. Leo Woller and of young
Arthur Preston. ft.
FURTHER ARGUMENT HEARD
t
In Alleged Frauds In South Car
olina Elections.
—
JOINT INVESTIGATION
Suggested, But Owing to Nearness of the
Close of the Session Further Hearing
Was Postponed.
Washington. Peh. 26 —The committee
on election of the president, vice-presi
dent and members of congress today
hnard further argument In the alleged
South Carolina election frauds.
Dr Sampson Pope. Independent candi
date for governor, took the stand. Dr.
Pope characterized as a great fraud the
constitutional convention and reviewed
at length the circumstances attending
it. Uneasy for fear that the conserva
tive element of the state would Join the
republicans and form a just constitu
tion, he said the democratic leaders,
Senator Tillman and others, entered into
a most damnable agreement. The
scheme to which they bdund themselves
and their followers provided among other
things, that no white man should be dis
franchised except for crime, that the
whites should be Insured supremacy, and
the constitution, when adopted, should
not again be submitted to the people.
He had gone Into the courts and endeav
ored to stop the eleetton of delegates to
the convention, but had been unsuccess
ful.
south Carolina, ne held, was out in
the cold as far as representation in con
gress was concerned. It was admitted
to the union “provided that it did not
change the constitution of 1868," which
was approved by congress. The legis
lature of the state had broken faith long
ago and as a matter of fact no senator
or representative—democrat or republi
can-had a right to sit in the national
legislature.
Further, when the present constitution
was adopted, it was never submitted to
the people for latiflcation, those framing
it never took the oath,’ and a number of
them held other offices under the state
government. The provisions of the con
stitution were violated in each instance.
The result was that thousands were de
barred from suffrage.
These were facts and if the committee
would go to South Carolina and take tes
timony or send for persons and papers,
it could easily get at the facts. It was
an important, matter and one which con
gress should look into.
IMr. Corliss, republican, of Michigan,
said that the memorials presented by
Mr. Murray, and which were the subject
of the hearing, were addressed to "the
congress of the United States,” and asked
Mr. Pope if he thought under these cir
cumstances the inquiry should not be
joint, the senate participating.
Mr. Pope replied that he thought a
joint inquiry would have been better.
Mr. Curtis, republican, of New York,
chairman of the committee, said that
this was an important qneslion. and he
would like*Mr. Pope to submit his views
on it fully.
Replying, Mr. Pope Fald that each
house was the judge of the election of Us
own members. The constitution guar
anteed a republican form of government
to each state. If South Carolina did not.
have such a form of government it had
no right to representation. The house
committee, he thought, could act inde
pendently hut Individually he favored a
Joint investigation. The question, as far
as he knew, had' never been advanced
hetore. The committee should not look
for precedents, but should blaze the way
for itself.
Reference was made to the fact that
Massachusetts had an1 educational pro
vision regarding the right of suffrage in
its constitution.
Mr Pope said that this was so, but it
applied to those coming of age and'those
entering the state, and not those entitled
to vote when it was enacted.
The right of suffrage, once given, be
came a vested right, and a citizen could
not be divested of such a right except far
crime. This, in Itself, was an important
matter to be considered in connection
with the new constitution of South Car
olina.
Replying to a question by Mr. Talbert,
democrat, of South Carolina, as to the
part lie took in certain legislation In the
state, he said that it was enacted before
he became a member of the legislature.
He added that the scales had fallen from
his eyes, and he was now a protectionist
and an outspoken republican and he only
regretted that he had not Joined this par
ty twelve years ago. He was in it now
to stay and would work to convert the
people of his state. He even hoped to
convert his friend Mr. Talbert.
Mr. Smalls said that the democratic
governor and not the legislature had de
cided that the constitution should not be
submitted to the people.
Mr. Wilson replied that the old law did
not declare that a new constitution should
be submitted to the people. It only p i
vlded that amendments should be sub
mitted.
ur i-ope, in me course or the nearing, ,
secured from Mr. Wilson an admission
that he (Pope) had a right to contest the
election and then declared that he had
been unable to prevail upon any member 1
of the legislature to present his contest
and when the speaker had been Induced
to submit It, the assembly had voted it
down. •
The committee then went Into executive
session and decided to submit the facts
gathered by them to the house with the
recommendation that the whole matter
be referred to the next congress, in view
of Its Importance It was deemed unwise
at this late day session to undertake the
Inquiry.
SAW THE CITY
In a Lengthy Ride—A Good Joke on a
New Arrival.
A gentleman from Kentucky who has
always been skeptical as to the claims of
Birmingham being.a large city was con
vinced last night to his own temporary
satisfaction, at least, that he has been
mistaken. The gentleman Is Mr. Z. T.
Smiley, of Lexington, who arrived In the
city last night to attend the Mardl Gras
pleasures and visit relatives.,
He was met at the depot by Captain
Barnes Morgan and J. B. Smiley with a
carriage. The driver was given orders to .
go direct t,o tjig Warner-Smiley company’
stable In the heart sf.tbe city. Then be
gan a drive Up and dowh divers streets
for half ah hour befofe the well known
establishment was reached- which is only
a few blocks from the depot. As Mr.
Smiley alighted from the carriage he ad
mitted (hut Birmingham Is a great city
and that great will be her carnival.
Mr. Smiley's father and brother reside
in this city and the totter was one of the
practical jokers. Mr. Smiley Is still un
conscious of the harmless Joke played on
him. y » e
SANGUfLLY iS A FREE MAN
Oiney Receives Official Notifica
tion of His Pardon.
WILL LEAVE HAVANA TODAY
Thorough Investigation Into the Death of Ri
cardo Ruiz Ordered by the Spanish Gov
ernment- Was an American Citizen.
Washington, Feb. 26.—Secretary Ol
ney, with the offlclal notification of San
guilly's pardon by the queen of Spain
in his hands, visited President Cleve
land at the white house an hour before
the cabinet met. The anticipation is
that a similar notification has been ca
bled to Acting Captain General Ahumeda
at Havana and that Sangutlly will leave
Havana for the United States on the
steamer which leavps Havana tomorrow,
having first given his parole to partici
pate no further In the Cuban insurrec
tion.
A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION
As to the Death of Ricardo Ruiz Ordered
By the Spanish Government.
Washington, Feb 26.—Official cable
grams from Madrid, received at the Span
ish legation regarding the death of Ruiz,
show that the government is aroused to
most energetic action and that orders
have gone forward to Cuba to have a
most thorough investigation into affairs.
This is regardless of the question of
Ruiz's nationality, for whethtr he is an
American or not, the government has de
termined that if a crime has been com
mitted, those guilty shall be punished.
In the meantlm- no efforts are being
spared to determine whether Ruiz was an
American citizen or not and tinder both
state department and legation authori
ties the records are being searched. So
far it can lie found only that Ruiz, then
« dental student, took out his first pa
pers declaring intention In Philadelphia,
Dec. 19, 1877. This was near the close of
the last revolution. He soon graduated
as a dentist and returned ti^Guanabacoa,
in 1880, where he had practiced ever since.
It can’t be learned that he ever return-d
tQ the United States nor does it appear
that he lived here long enough to ac
quire naturalization. However, the
Madrid government will push the Investi
gation of his death just as forcibly as
possible, and If Gen. Lee's charges are
correct, that the doctor was killed or
driven to suicide by his Jailors, the sever
est punishment of military law will be
executed on those responsible.
WAS AN AMERICAN.
Tpcik Out His Trial Papers In Open
Court In Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, Pa., Feb. 26.—Ricardo
Ruiz deUgarrio, or Ricardo Ruiz, as he
was lately known* and who is said to
have been beaten to death in a Spanish
prison in Cuba, was an American citizen.
He wias naturalized in this city. This
fact was alleged some time ago, and to
day record of his naturalization was
found in a proth*>notary's office. Under
his full name (Ricardo Ruiz de-Ugarrio)
Ruiz declared his intention of becoming
a citizen of the United States in Decem
ber, 1S77, and final naturalization lxapers
were granted January 21, 1880. When he
came to this country he called himself
simply Ruiz. He was naturalized in open
court by Judge Thomas K. Finletter.
The papers were regularly indexed un
der the name Ugarrio, and when the con
troversy begun over his natural names
Ruiz could not be found. The discovery
today, however, removes all doubts on
the subject.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
Jacksonville, Fla., Feb. 26.—It is re
ported tonight that the cruiser Indiana
is at the bar. She will go south in the
morning, it is said. Her destination Is
unknown, but her presence here has
aroused much comment on account of
the Cuban situation.
[STILL TIED UP.
Alleged Filibustering Steamer Dauntless
Refused Permission to Leave Her
Wharf—The Vesuvius.
Washington, Feb. 26.—The alleged fili
bustering steamer Dauntless, In whose
behalf suit was filed yesterday, against
the collector of customs, at Jacksonville,
declined to acce<pt the conditions ijn
posed by the treasury department for her
departure from that port and as a, re
sult was not permitted to leave. It was
learned at the treasury department that
permission was asked by the owners of
■ the Dauntless, then in the custody of the
collector, to permit the vessel to proceed
on a wrecking expedition to Fernandina,
Fla. The suggestion was made by the
Dauntless people that an officer of the
federal government accompany the
steamer as custodian. The treasury de
partment granted the permission, im
posing, however, a further condition, that
aJiklavits should be furnished that there
Was no intention to violate* the naviga
tion and neutrality laws, but the own
er* of the Dauntless declined to make
sworn statements and the steamer was
obliged to remain at Jacksonville.
A renewal of the application for per
mission to allow the Dauntless to pro
ceed from Jacksonville to Fernandina
without conditions other than the pres
ence of a federal officer on board was
made to the treasury department today.
it is suspected there that a combina
tion of filibustering expeditions is be
lpg-planned. The Bermuda was reported
to have left Bermuda for Fernandina
several days ago, and the officers of the
revenue patrol are on the lookout for her.
As Fernandina is also the proposed des
tination of the Dauntless, the department
officials think there is good ground for
proceeding with the utmost care in deal
ing with the steamers suspected of being
engaged in filibustering operations.
STILL NO DECISION.
In the Restraining Order at Jacksonville
Letter From Blsbee to Blsbee.
Jacksonville, Fla.. Feb. 26.—No deci
sion has yet bepn* rendered by Judge
Locke. of the United States court, upon
tlie application of W. A. Blsbee, owner
of the steamer Dauntless, to restrain the
collector of customs and the commander
of the revenue cutter Boutwell from in
terfering with the movements Of the
Dauntless. The steamer is still tied up,
With an officer of the cutler on board,
hut the owner Is trying hard to get per
mission to leave port.
The following letter was written to
the collector ot customs this morning by
W. A. Bisbee:
C. R. Bisbee, Collector of Customs, City:
Dear Sir—I hfreby demand of you that
you allow the steam tug Dauntless to
proceed to sea on her lawful business.
We are willing to make affidavit that we
will not violate any laws of the United
States. Will you kindly reply to this
in writing, stating whether you will or
will not allow the steamer to depart?
Yours truly. W. A. BISBKE.
Own‘r Rlsbee said this morning: "The
affidavit the officials at. Washington
wanted me to sign provided that I could
not aid the Cuban cause in any way. It
was a deep plot well laid, but poorly ex
ecuted.”
No reply was received from the collec
tor this morning.
STOPPED BY THE VESUVIUS. ]
Jacksonville, Fla.. Feb. 26.—Th • tug
Dauntless had a little sensational tilt
with the cruiser Vesuvius today. She
tried to leave the river when four blasts
from the Vesuvius' big whistle were
h-ard. The tug did not obey and a sec
ond and third ware blown. Seeing other
preparations made to stop her by force,
the tug gracefully yielded and came Into
dock again. It is believed that It was
done to make a case against the govern
ment for damages stronger, alleging il
legal detention.
BIG RAIL PURCHASE.
New York, Feb. 26.—The purchase of
58.000 tons of 80-pound steel rails by the
receivers of the Baltimore and Ohio Rail
road company at a cost of about $1,009,
000 is confirmed by the officers of the com
pany. It is said that these rails will be
placed in the track as soon as possible,
and that by fall the tracks between Bal
timore and the Ohio river will practical
ly be entirely retold with new steel rails,
and new oak ties. As fast as the old rail
is taken up it will be relald on the less
important branches or used in extending
much needed side tracks.
BATTLESHIP AT NEW ORLEANS.
New Orleans, La., Feb. 26.—The battle
ship Texas left Galveston Wednesday for
tills city and made an uneventful run
to the passes, arriving there last night. <
She had no difficulty In getting through
the Jetties und stopped at tiiie quarantine
station. She left there early this morning
and arrived here at 3:15 p. m. She was
accorded a noisy welcome by all the craft
in the harbor.
HURRAH FOR LOUISVILLE.
Louisville, Ky., Feb. 26.—Both branch's
of the city council have passed an or- .
dinanee prohibiting women from wear
ing hats in the theaters and public halls.
Mayor Todd will sign It tomorrow.
MOSLEMS RAMPANT.
*
Urged to More Inhuman Deeds By False
Reports of the Governor of Crete
—Things Look Better For
i Greece,
Canea, Feb. 26.—Most of the foreign
warships that were lying In the harbor
here have left and gone to Suda where
there Is better anchorage than here. It Is j
likely, however, that their presence here
will again be required, as the situation
has become more critical than ever be
fore, and It would not be surprising if a
conflict should-occur. In one respect.th?.
Interposition of the powers has had a bad
effect, In that it has led the Moslems to
believe that Europe is hack of them in
their combat with the Christians. As a
result there are this afternoon 8,000 Mos
lem fighting men. besides the Turkish sol
diers. all heavily armed, parading the
streets of the city and demanding the
blood of the Christian dogs who have
dared question the rights of tbe Turks to
rule them. The combined forces that
have been landed by the several powers
number only SOD men and it. is believed
that without the aid of the warships they
would prove of no avail in preserving or
der In the city.
The popular passion has been added to
by Ishmael Pasha, the acting governor,
who has circulated false stories to the
effect that the Greek troops are mutilat
ing Moslem children. The governor
knows these stories to be false, and ap
parently his only object is to create
among the Moslems deeper hatred of -the
Christians and further excite the desires
for revenge. The commanders of the war
ships remaining In the harbor protested
to the governor against his breaking the
armistice, but the protest was unheeded.
The admirals commanding the foreign
flpets have been notified of Ishmael’s ac
tion and there is much speculation as to
the course they will pursue.
LOOKS A LITTLE DIFFERENT.
One of the Powers Said to Have With
drawn From the Compact.
Athens, Feb. 26.—The popular Indigna
tion against the great powers shows no
sign of waning, and If the people had
their way, they would fight with arms In
their hands against the combined forces
of Europe In defense of their right to
protect the Christians In Crete. It Is
not alone among ihe people that this feel
ing prevails. Parliamentary and offi
cial opinion strongly favors resistance
to the demands of the powers. The
Joint note addressed to the Greek gov
ernment has not yet been delivered and
the delay Is unexplained. Only the Rus
sian, Austrian and German ministers
have been Instructed by their govern
ments concerning the note.
It Is reported that one of the powers
have withdrawn from the concert. If
this is true It will leave matters in statu
quo and will break up the concert the
efforts of which have been directed to
overawing Greece by threats.
SYMPATHY FOR CRETE.
Rome, Feb. 26.—A mass meeting was
held at Palermo tonight for the purpose
of expressing sympathy with the Cretan
Christians in their efforts to rid them
selves of Turkish rule. Among the mei*
sages received was one from ex-Prlme
Minister CrLspi, who, after expressing
his approval on the subject of the meet
ing. said: "It was due to Great Rrltain
that Glbralti, in 1860, was not hindered
from landing in Sicily. Today the ease
Is identical. If the powers intervene It
ought to be for the liberation of oppressed
nations and never to maintain a state of
barbarism living on incendiarism and as
sassination.”
A COUP FOR RUSSIA.
Paris, Feb. 26.—The Matin says that
the scheme for settlement of the Cretan
difficulty by requiring the withdrawal
of Greek troops and later of the Turkish
troops and granting autonomy to the
island, as outlined by Lord Salisbury in
the British house of lords yesterday, was
originally propounded by Russia and was
the first diplomatic success achieved by
Count Muravleff. the new Russian min
ister of foreign affairs.
IS THIS A BLUFF?
London. Feb. 26. —A Greek firm doing
business in London has received a tele
gram from Athens saying that King
George, of Greece, has accepted the de
mand of the powers for the withdrawal of
Greek troops and warships from tjjete.
GRADUAL AND MODERATELY
Has Bef£ the Increase in All
fjusiness Lines,
VAF/>quantity of trade
- •
K ,een Brought Out in Iron Industry by the
Ruptured Pool.
V
PLACING OF ORDERS FOR RAILS
To an Enormous Extent, Meat of It for For
eign Trade Has Been the Feature.
Woolen and Cotton Mills Also
Show Improvement.
New York, Feb. 26.—R. G. Dun & Co.,
will say^tomorrow In their weekly review
of trade:
Genuine improvement in business does
not come with a rush, like the breaking of
a great dam. The growth for some weeks
past has been more encouraging, because
in nearly all lines it has been gradual
and moderate. The rupture of the steel
rail and other combinations in the iron
business has brought out a vast quanti
ty of trade which had been held back and
has set many thousands of men at work.
While the slow but steady gain in the
other Industries has given employment to
many thousands more, but the full effects
will not appear until the increased pur
chases by all these swell the distribution
of goods. This comes more slowly and
later, but it is still apparent. Certain
ty regarding the future will help It might
ily and is by multitudes expected with
strong hope. Meanwhile it is substantial
ground for confidence that months which
were regarded by many in the money
market with serious apprehension, have
passed without disturbance, and with
steady guln in the position of the country
and of the treasury.
It Is not to be expected that the excess
of exports over imports would continue
as large in January as It had been in
previous months, and yet it was sur
prisingly large. The February returns
have naturally bepn less favorable, as cot
ton exports fall off at this season, and
yet the decrease compared with last year*
is trifling, while the increase in Imports
to be expected at this season has amount
ed during the past three weeks to only
$629,040, compared with last year, or about
2 per cent. Nothing In the state of for
eign exchanges indicates that the heavy
credits In favor of this country have been
liquidated or seriously diminished.
Iron bars are unchanged, but orders for
900 cars by one railroad with numerous
others, Increase the demand, and plates
arc required for two great elevators at
Chicago. Important contracts for export
continue and American makers undersell
foreign in tin plates by 70 cents and are
selling cotton ties below 75 cents, tor
Which $1.10 was charged by Importers a
' ywir'flgo.
With less rapidity but yet steadily the
other Industries are gaining. Although
brown four yard sheetings are an eighth
lower and print cloths a sixteenth lower.
It Is found that several cotton mills are
started, not covered by the restriction as
to print doth works, which is carried out.
Increasing demand has a'so started a
number of woolen mills, including many
making dress goods and hosiery. The de
mand for men's woolens Is somewhat bet
ter, and especially for heavy weights and
there are improving sales of better quali
ties.
In boots and shoes there is a growing
belief that prices will not give way, has
started many more shops, although many
Jobbers still shrink from the prices asked.
Failures for the week have been 296
In the United States, against 278 test
year, and 50 in Canada, against 58 last
year.
BRADSTREET’S REVIEW.
New York, Feb. 26.—Brads treet's to
morrow will say: The placing of orders
for nearly 1,600,000 tons of steel within the
past three weeks is the most important
influence of the improvement in general
trade since the November election. A
good share of the orders is for blooms and
billets, and inasmuch as the bulk of them
are placed with the more modern among
the larger steel mills, the latter And them
selves well supplied with work for months
to come. The Bfssemer pig iron and
steel billet markets have been duly in
fluenced and Arm, with moderate ad
vances on heavy sales. The contracts
for strefl rails taken since the break
in the price, together with expenditure
necessary to lay the rails means the plac
ing in circulation of no less than $35,000,
000. The meaning of sales of rails for
export has been exaggerated, as some
orders placed abroad were due to English
mills being temporarily engaged in other
forms of steel. The rush for rolls ap
pears to be about over, and the outlook is
for higher prices. Consumption of Bes
semer pig iron is Ini excess of production,
and wire and wire nail mills are run
ning full time.
Many woolen mills In New England
have started up. Manufacturers are
buying In expectation of a duty being
placed on raw wool. Recent Improve
ment In cotton goods ts maintained. At
most cities there has been no change In
the volume or temper of trade. Demand
has been quiet, and while exp-ctatlons
favor an early improvement, progress
thus far has been somewhat disappoint
ing. The most marked gains aro at
Chicago and St. Louis, where visiting
merchants have made relatively heavy
purchases of dry goods, clothing and
groceries. Jobbers at Cleveland. Cincin
nati, Milwaukee and’ Louisville, In some
Instances, regard the outlook as more
unfavorable.
Unfavorable weather on the south At
lantic ctoost and at the northwest has
interrupted business, and the reports
from Galveston and Nashville are that
the movement of merchandise has been
disappointing. The week’s volume of
clearings is $783:420.050, 12 per cent, less
than last week, but 14 per cent, less than
in the like week one year ago.
Tbe price movement is more favorable,
with advances for hides, and In some In
stances for shoes. Bessemer pig, steel bil
lets, cotton, Indian corn, oats, cheese,
turpentine. Leather remains firm, at. the
recent advance, and lumber, southern pig
Iron, bar Iron, steel rails, rosin, rice,
wheat, flour, sugar and coffee are prac
tically unchanged.
There are 258 business failures reported
throughout the United Slates, compared
with 325 last week and 271 In the week
one year ago.
ACQUIRED ANOTHER ROAD.
Augusta, Ga„ Feb. 26—It Is reported
that the South Carolina and Georgia rail
road has leased or puchased the Augusta
Southern from hero to Sandersville, Ga.,
where It will oonnect with other roads
for points south and southwest. This con
solidation would open up valuable terri
tory In Georgia to Charleston.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1897.--TWELVE PAGES. NUMBER 36
SUCCESS NOW IS ASSURED
The Carnival Will Go Down in
History
AS AN AFFAIR OF GRANDEUR
And Redound to the Credit of
Alabama’s Great Magic City.
REX VULCAN IINOWEN ROUTE
Message Read at O’Brien’s Opera House An
nouncing Departure from Tampa, fla.
Grandest Display of Flans and Bunting in
the History of the fatate—Coliseum
Absolutely Safe, Say Two Reli
able and Well Known
*>
Architects.
All is now ready for the coming of
His Majesty, Hex Vulcan II.
'The city is robed in holiday attire. The
throne is prepared, and thousands are
gathering in the Magic City to offer him
a welcome according to his station.
He is now speeding toward the city
as rapidly as steam can bring him, and
promptly at 1:30 o'clock tomorrow he
will arrive.
The following letter announces his re
ception at Tampa, Fla.:
Tampa, Fla., Feb. 26, 1S97.
Mr. E. Lesser, Governor Province of Bir
mingham:
Early this morning the United States
vessel Chase signaled from St. Peters
burg that His Royal Majesty, Rex Vul
can II., on the steamship La Grande
Duehesse, of the Plant Steamship Line,
accompanied by the private yacht, Magic
City, and the six mcn-of-war, Terror,
Invincible, Cyclone, Terrific, Inferno and
Desperate, were in sight of the quaran
tine station. Immediately the entire
gulf coast Plant Fleet, consisting of the
steamer Margaret, in command of Ad
miral John Fitzgerald, accompanied by
the steamships Olivette, Capt. N. F.
Howes; Mascotte, Capt. Frederick Rouse;
Florida, Capt. M. J. Hewson; Halifax,
cipt. C. E. Pye; steamer Tarpon, Capt.
R. S. Warner; steamer Lawrence, Capt.
P. A. Washington; steamer Clara, Capt.
Herman Fischer; steamer Apalachee,
Rear Admiral Branan; steamer Helen
Denham, Capt. Jacobs; steamer Sam
Pyles, Commodore Bradley and steamer
A. J. Lane, Capt. Gonzales, which were
anchored in Tampa Bay expecting the
arrival, got under way with screaming of
whistles to meet His Royal Majesty and
salute him with a salute of fifty guns.
The Margaret had on board His Excel
lency, Governor Mitchell, of Florida; lion,
and Mrs. H. B. Plant, and Mrs. Wood,
the Hon. J. H. Fessedon, President Board
of Trade, of Tampa, and the Hon. M. E.
Gillett. mayor of Tampa, with numerous
officials of the Plant Line, and citizens
of Florida. On meeting the La Grande
Duehesse, His Majesty was saluted by all
of the vessels running up the colors of
His Royal Majesty, purple, yellow and
green. Never was a prettier sight wit
nessed in American waters than this
meeting.
•l ne King wan mis escort proceeaea
and dropped anchor at Port Tampa, op
posite the Bellevlcw hotel, where His
Royal Majesty disembarked and was
greeted by the representative citizens of
Florida, and was escorted to the hotel,
where His Majesty and suite partook of
a royally served fish breakfast. Special
yellow line Plant trains were in waiting
to convey His Majesty, attendants, suite
and baggage to Tampa, where grand
preparations had been made for bis re
ception at the Tampa Bay Hotel, where
the special trains arrived at noon. Here
the Louis XIV. parlors and the room ad
joining had been reserved for his com
fort. Never has this hotel shown off to
better advantage than upon this occasion.
The out and inside of the hotel had been
gaily decorated in the colors of Vulcan
II., by Manager Hathaway, and the
grand art hail and dining room were
made bowers of beauty with tropical
plants and the colors of Vulcan II.
At 4 p. m. dinner was announced by
the royal trumpeter, AI Hasen, and the
royal party, accompanied by Hon. H. B.
Plant and hts wife, Hon. R. G. Erwin and
Mrs. M. A. Wood, Gov. Mitchell, Mayor
M. E. Gillett, Hon. J. H. Fessedon, presi
dent of the board Of trade; Col, George
Adadr, Gen. A. V. Clubbs, the Hons, H.
M. Flagler, J. E. Ingram, J. R. Parrott,
Flemming G. DuBignon, D. F. Jack, M.
J. O’Brian, Franklin J. Brown, H. A.
Ford, F. del Sullivan, Rempson Craw
ford, Geo. H. Tilley, R. B. Smith and T.
W. Leary and Cardinal Smythe, marched
to the grand dining hall, where the ta
bles were set In the form of a star and
crescent, hts royal highness being seated
1n the center, and on his right the gov
ernor, the maiyor of the city, and Messrs,
H. M. Flagler, J. E. Ingram and J. R.
Parrott, and on his left Mrs. Plant and
her guest, Mrs. Wood, and Mr. Plant.
This dinner will be long remembered by
the participants, it being one of the
grandest ever served in this royal hotel,
the service being all of solid gold and
silver, and the wines being of the oldest
and rarest vintages. The entire dinner
was under the supervision of his majes
ty’s chef, Jean Buffet.
Before rising from the table, his maj
esty expressed h1s great satisfaction at
the royal reception accorded him, and
proposed the health of ail present, which
was responded to by the Hon. Flemming
G. du Bignon in his usual graceful style.
On rising from the table the royal party
repaint! to the Louis XIV. parlors, where
Rex Vulcan II. conferred upon Mrs.
Plant the grand diamond diadem of Un
41nda; upon Mrs, Wood the diamond col
lar of Matan; upon Mr. Plant the decora
tion of the grand cross of Mugunda, with
the title of royal prince; upon Mr. Flag
ler the grand cross of Monfla. with the
title of duke; upon the Hon. J. R. Parrott
and the Hon. J. E. Ingram the Star of
Salaam, with the title of baron; upon Mr.
Erwin the Grand Star of Kaenda, with
the title of royal prince, and the other
participants in the banquet his majesty
decorated with the star and created them
Knights of Knrenga.
After Inspecting the beautiful illumi
nated gardens, the royal party boarded
the royal ye'.Iow Plant trains, especially
equipped and decorated for the occasion,
and left at 9 o’clock sharp this evening
for Birmingham, Ala., where his majesty i
will arrive at 1:30 p. m. Monday. The
people of Birmingham, so It is under
stood, are making grand preparations for
the reception of this royal visitor. I un
derstand the train will only make two
stops, one at Thoinasvllle, Ga., to deco
rate and knight the Hon. S. G. McLendon,
and at Montgomery to decorate and
and knight the Hon. A. A. Wiley.
(Signed) REMPSON CRAWFORD,
Chief Chronicler.
LEAVES TAMPA.
Last night at 9:30 o’clock the following
telegram was received <by Gov. E. Lesser,
of the province of Birmingham, and read
from the stage at O’Brien’s by Mr. Rob
ert Bryson. Ward, representing the "Old
Homestead" company:
Plant City, Fla.. Feb. 27, 1897.
To Mr. E. Lesser, President, Province of
Birmingham:
His royal and gracious majesty, Rex
Vulcan II., with Ms attendants, trumpet
ers and baggage, on the royal trains,
have just left here amid the cheering of
the citizens and the booming of cannon.
A deputation of citizen's visited his maj
esty in his car and urged him to stay a
day with us, the guest of the city, but he
declined, saying that Ms royal subjects
at Birmingham had made grand and
elaborate preparations for his reception,
and he must leave in order to arrive there
at 1:30 sharp Monday. His majesty was
in excellent spirits and anticipates great
pleasure at meeting his subj»cts in Bir
mingham. WM. S. JONES. Mayor.
THE COLISEUM SAFE.
In view of the fact that much comment
as to the safety of the Coliseum has been
indulged in, the fallowing communica
tions are printed for the benefit of
"doubting Thomases:"
Birmingham, Ala., Feb. 28, 1897.
E. Lesser, President Carnival Society:
Dear Sir—As per your request, I have
examined the construction of Coliseum
and consider 1t safe.
CHARLES WHBELOCIC, Architect.
Birmingham, Ala., Feb. 28, 1897.
Hawkins Lumber Company:
Gentlemen—As per request, I have ex
amined the frame work of youir "Wig
wam,” and ’tis my opinion that It is suf
ficiently strong for all purposes for which
it is intended to be used. The seats will
carry much more weight than will ever
be put upon them without any risk what
ever. Yours truly, W. S. SMITH,
Architect.
THEY ARE COMING.
All the people will be here. From every
direction the crowds have began arriv
ing. and it is now plainly to be seen, that
Birmingham will be filled to overflow
ing with visitors. Applications for ac
commodations havo been pouring In
hourly, and every nook and corner will
soon be Ailed.
One party of sixty from Selma was
booked yesterday. A telegram from a
Florida city to the Morris asked for ac
commodations fora large party. In fact
everybody, his wife and wife's relatives
will b-;- with us.
EVERYTHING READY
Not a stone has been left unturned to
make the carnival a success and every
thing is now in readiness for the arrival
of His Majesty, Rex Vulcan II.
Old and young are on the tiptoe of ex
pectancy and the two days will be turned
over to merry-making and good cheer.
. LAVISH DECORATIONS.
Never before In the history of this city
has there been such a lavish display of
bunting and some of them would do
credit to the greatest city in America.
Flags are flying, bunting spread and
even the very staid and prim city hall has
her flag floating from the masthead.
The success of the earnival is now as
sured.
THE GEORGIANS CAN COME.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 27.—(Special.)—
The adjutant general has granted per
mission to Company B, Fifth Georgia in
fantry, to pass through the state armed
and equipped, going to and returning
from Mardi Gras at Birmingham.
WILL BE RECEIVED ROYALLY.
All the local- companies will be at the
depot today to receive the Capital City
Guards, of Atlanta, who will be their
guests during the carnival.
THE FIRST FATAUTY
In Connection "With Cincinnati’s Inun
dation Caused by a Building
Caving In.
- I
Cincinnati, Ohio, Feb. 27.—The first fa
taility attending the high water occurred
at 4:15 o’clock this afternoon. Three ot
the floors of the five-story stone front
warehouse on Front street, near Vine,
owned by Hinkle, Wilson & Kreis, whole
sale grocers, caved in at that hour. The
building Is surrounded with several feet
of water. About 1,000 barrels of sugar
went down with the wreck; which car
ried with it several men, All of the front
and rear walls and part of the sidewalls
are still standing.
Eleven men were at work In the build
ing but all escaped serious injury by
Jumping from windows into the water,
except Jacob Schmalbach, aged 50, of
Covington, Ky., who 1s misting and
doubtless crushed to death under the
ruins. Mike Coleman, anoth r of the men,
was struck on the head by a falling joist.
Mr. Wilson, one of the proprietors was
In the front of the building when the col
lapse came and was thrown Into the cel
lar. He was not struck by any of the
debris and succeeded In swimming to
sa f tey.
The high waters doubtless weakened
the foundations and let the floors down.
The loss is about $55,000.
aiTheroicTeaTh.
Horrible Fate of a Son In a Successful
Attempt to Save His Father's
Life.
Galveston, Tex., Feb. 27.—Paul L. Le
fvre made an heroic and successful ef
fort to save the life of his father this
morning, but lost his own.
Eugene Lefvre and son, carpenters and
house movers, were engaged in moving
an old building, but their progress was
obstructed by wire. Eugene Lefvre,
who was standing on the top of the build
ing, grasped one of the wires with both
hands in an effort to raise it to the top
of the house. Instantly he was para
lyzed, blue flashes of electricity' flew from
his body, his hands were smoking and the
smell of burning flesh made the looker
on turn sick. Paul, who was on the roof
with his father, sprang to him and tore
him loose. As his father fell on the roof,
his life saved, the son fell upon the wires
and his life was sacrificed. The young
man was 23 years of age.
The elder Lefvre’s hands were fearful
ly burned and his escape from death was
miraculous and due to the bravery of his
son.
SPANIARDS ARE WHIPPED.
Is the Opinion cf a Reliable Correspond
ent-Frightful Condition of Smallpox.
Charlotte, N. C., Feh. 27.—Dr. J. J. Kin
youn, past assistant surgeon, was In the
city tonight en route to Washington
from Havana, where he had been sent to
inspect quarantine conditions and he will
report at once to Surgeon General Wy
man There are 6,000 cases of smallpox
in Havana. There were 150 deaths last
week.
Dr. Kinyoun met all the newspaper cor
respondents In Cuba. A correspondent
of the London Times, one of the most
accurate and best posted, thinks the
Spaniards ape whipped. The correspond
ent of El Liberal has wired his paper
at Madrid that Gomez can indefinitely
prolong the war.
A BEAUTIFUL TRIBUTE,
Washington, Feb. 27.—Vice-President
Stevenson, whose term of office expires
next Thursday, was this evening pre
sented with a magnificent silver service
at his apartments in the Normandie. The
presentation speech was made by Sena
tor Hoar, of Massachusetts, followed by
Mr. Gorman, of Maryland; Senator Black
burn, of Kentucky, representing the state
in which the vice-president was bom,
made a short speech, as did Senator
Cullom, representing the state from
which the vice-president comes. Mr.
Stevenson replied briefly, and was deep
ly moved by the beautiful tribute of hl3
associates of the past four years.
PINGREE STILL AHEAD.
Detroit, Mich., Feb. 27.—Hazen S. Pin
gree Is still mayor of Detroit and gov
ernor of the state of Michigan, according
to an opinion rendered by the full bench
of the Wayne circuit court today. The
decision was upon the mandamus pro
ceedings, brought by the Board of Public
Works Commissioner Moreland, to re
quire the court of Wayne to declare the
office of mayor vacant, and issue a call
for an election, to fill the vacancy. The
court holds that Mr. Moreland, stand
ing alone, and without the relation of the
attorney general, has no standing in
court and the court has no Jurisdiction.
DAY IS CHIEF OF UMPIRES.
Baltimore, Md., Feb. 27.—The baseball
magnates decided upon Philadelphia as
the place for their fall meeting of 1897
and on St. Louis for the schedule meeting
for the season of 1838. J. B. Day. of New
York, was cthosen chief of umpires. Then
the magnates adjourned sine die.
W. J CRUMP DEAD.
Richmond. Va., Feb. 27.—Ex-Judge Wil
liam J. Crump, the most distinguished
lawyer of this city, died today at 4:30 p.
m., aged 73 years. He had served in the
city council. In the legislature, as circuit
Judge, as assistant secretary of the con
federacy, and in many other public po
sitions.
CONVICT INSPECTORS NAMED
S. D. TRAPP, OF ANNISTON, NAMED
A3 PRESIDENT.
Dr. Blake, of Clay County, Chosen Physi
cian Inspector and E W. Eooker,
of Uniontown, Associate.
Montgomery, Ala., Feb. 27.—(Special.)—
Gov. Johnston tonight eased the anxiety
of thousands of people in Alabama by
announcing the appointment of the board
of convict Inspectors as follows:
President—S. D. Trapp, of Anniston,
Calhoun county.
Physician inspector—Dr. Blairc, cl Clay
“county.
Associate inspector—E. W. Booker, of
Uniontown, Perry county. I
There were some eighty applicants and
a vigorous race was made by twenty-five
or thirty. The governor has worked in
dustriously for ten days on the matter
and his selection is believed to be a par
ticularly fortunate one.
Mr. Trapp Is a man of recognized busi
ness ability. He Jias for a good many
years been a member oP the big whole
sale firm of Trapp & Comer, and has ac
cumulated a competency. It is believed
he will do the state splendid service as
the head of the convict department. He
is a true blue democrat and silver man,
and was president of the Johnston club
at Anniston. The fact of the recent ap
pointment of Colonel Crook, of Calhoun
as the president of the railroad commis
sion makes Mr. Trapp's appointment ..11
the more complimentary, coming as he
does from the same county.
Dr. Blake is one of the foremost phy
s'cians in Eastern Alabama. He has
been a working democrat all his life and
was an enthusiastic Johnston man.
Everybody knows Captain Booker. He
is one of the best democrats and most
popular citizens of Alabama, and his ap
pointment has all along been a foregone
conclusion.
UNCLE SAM WIDE AWAKE
The Bermuda Being Closely Looked Out
for—Filibustering Expedition on
the Tapis.
Washington, Feb. 27.—A sharp lookout
is being kept by vessels of the navy and
revenue cutter service for the filibuster
Bermuda and the appearance of the In
diana off St. John>• bar. Florida, is only
another evidence of the precautionary
measures adopted. Whether the treas
ury department had any information on
the subject has not been ascertained,
but it is certain that the officials believe
another filibustering expedition Is In con
templation, If it has not already been
planned.
Instructions have been sent to the col
lector of customs at Jacksonville, with
reference to the renewed application of
the detained steamer Dauntless for per
mission to go to Fernandlna on a wreck
ing trip that the department stands on
the grounds previously stated. In effect
that unless the owners of the Dauntless
make the required legal affidavit that the
vessel does not Intend to engage in a vio
lation of the neutrality or navigation
laws, the vessel must remain in the col
lector's custody. This affidavit the own
ers of the Dauntless refused to make al
sonville agreeing to proceed from Jack
sonville In custody of an officer of the
United States. A combination of the
Bermuda and the Dauntless is what the
treasury and navy officials are seeking
to prevent.
All the available .vessels of the revenue
cutter service are now engaged in fili
bustering patrol work, and the navy de
partment has Increased its force by the
assignment of the Marblehead, the Vesu
vius and the Indiana.
GEN. THOMAS A. HUGUENIN DEAD.
Charleston', S. C., Feb. 27.—Gen. Thos.
A. Huguenln, a distinguished confeder
ate soldier, who, as MaJ. Huguenln, was
the last commander of Fort Sumter, and
held that post, for seven months, died at
his home in this city tonight.
DEMANDS A PHYSICIAN.
Bob Fitzsimmons demands a physi- I
clan’s certificate of Corbett’s ability to
stand the Fttzsimmon’s knock-out-blow
without falling dead, but he should also
offer proof of his ability to deliver the
goods in case the market is declared
ready.—Bessemer Journal.
. THE REAL GREAT MAN.
The greatest man In world is the
plain, plug man who .pays his debts,
supports his family fairly will £nd never
does anything remarkable. These re
markable men. who are thoroughbreds
for a time and rob all their friends, are
to be avoided.—Morgan County Herald. '
RUSSIA AIMS AT ENGLAND
Semi-official Communication in
Print from St. Petersburg.
WILL JOHN BULL WEAKEN
Or Still Remain Firm in His Attitude Toward
Greece?
PUBLIC INDIGNATION INCREASES
Throughout Brittany and Nothing but Abso
lute Autonomy Is the Sentimenti
ment—Sultan’s Army in Hags—
Cuban Comment.
London, Feb. 27.—(Copyright 897, by
the Sun Printing and Publishing asso
ciation.)—The Greece-Cretan situation is
in Us larger aspects less hopeful. The
announcement of the agreement of the
powers for its final settlement was to say
the least, premature. There exists at
the present moment serious irritation
between Russia and Great Britain, which
has provoked the former power to adopt
an attitude that can hardly be described
In a milder term than threatening. I do
not pretend to know the exact cause of
the trouble. It was discussed at a hasti
ly summoned meeting of the British cabi
net this afternoon, with what result, is,
of course, Impossible to say. A singu
lar semi-official communique from St.
Petersburg, Is published today in which
it is set forth "in the event of Greece,
with blind apprehension of our own ad
vantage, offering further opposition to
the well meant advice of Russia and of
the powers in alliance with her, or cre
ating difficulties, or in the event of her
allowing herself to be encouraged In her
,present attitude by self-seeking friends,
perhaps on the false supposition of lack
■of unanimity among the great powers
because one or the other powers did not
support it at the outset, the proposals of
Russia, who is In perfect agreement with
Germany and France, Russia in such an
emergency Is determined upon her course
of action. Conscious of her unity with
France, and of her absolute agreement
with Germany, and also with Austria,
even if isolated powers should not as
sociate themselves In the steps she is
resolved to take Russia will be In a po
sition at any rate not to allow the peace
of Europe to be endangered by events in
Crete.”
This is the tone which Russia has not
adopted towards any power within living
memory. England, of course, is the
-Country meant, and the words employed
suggest some exceedingly grave suspic
ions. It may be, however, that this lan
guage was used in the Interval between
tBV reception of laud Salisbury’s noto
skying in effect that England would do
nothing in regard to Greece until the
faite of Crete was decided and before
England had notified her acceptance of
Russia's proposal for-solving the diffi
culty. That proposal, although agreed
to in principle by the six powers, will
not be enforced In the form Interpreted
by Lord Salisbury in the house of lords
on Thursday. Neither England nor Italy
nor France will fire a gun to drive the
Greeks from Crete in order that the is
land be delivered to Turkish troops for
“nolice” purposes
Public opinion in all three countries
would put an absolute veto on the prop
osition. Every dispatch received from
Greece and Crete makes it perfectly
eh ar that such an arrangement would
never be sumbitted to. In fact, the reply
of Greece to Lord Salisbury's discourag
ing speech Thursday night has be*n a
Summons to two more divisions of re
serves to mobolize iNothlng but abso
lute autonomy for Crete will be accepted
by public opinion In this country, and
Lord Salisbury is fully aware of this
fact by this time. His unfortunate al
lusion to the use of Turkish troops as
police in Crete has added much to the
popular! indignation. Public anger is
slow to kindle in England. Cause and
effect In this, as in all things, are sep
arated by a wider interval1 than In almost
any other country. Public.1 opinion Is
fully aroused now’. It did not need an
other of William Watson's lyrics and a
series of Gladstone notes to inflame It.
Watson’s lyrics are sufficiently savage.
This is one of his verses, addressed to
Greece:
"Who are these would bind thy hands?
Knaves and dastards none beside.
All the just in all the lands.
Hail thee blest and sanctified.
Curst who would stop thy trlump march,
Be he kaiser, be he czar."
No news has yet been received of the
reception of the note or ultimatum from
the powers to Greece, but it Is generally
expected that It will be sent today. Its
terms and the number of signatures it
has will signify much. There is no real
reason* however, for thinking the Greek
government will change its attitude or
its purpose in response to a demand on
the lines of Lord Salisbury’s speech. All
accounts agree that It is not within the
power of the king- or government of
Greece to change its policy at such bid
ding. Quite aside, therefore, from the
question of the unanimity of the powers,
the situation is still one of the greatest
difficulty. The financial side of the sit
uation: Just now Is interesting. It is
possible to Insure almost anything In
London, and a great many persons to
whose ventures war would be dangerous
have been taking out pollices against
s*ch a contingency at Lloyds during the
past few days. These are the latest
rates to pay in the event of war between
England and France, Germany or Rus
sia:
Within one year, four per cent, of the
amount of the Insured policy, against a
war between any of the six great powers,
before August 30, costs eight and a half
per cent., and against a war between En
gland and any European country except
Turkey, five and a quarter per cent. It
1s something that a policy against a war
between England and the Transvaal re
public, within the next year costs five and
a quarter per cent.
An Englishman who passed through
Salenlca at the beginning of this week
whites that nobody seeing the Turkish
recruits arriving there would suppose
they would be able to make much of a
fight against the well-fed and well-clothed
Greek soldiers. The newly mobilized
redlfs In particular who have been called
from their homes and families for the
third time within twelve months are
ragged, hungry-looklng and depressed.
Miany of them have served since the be
ginning of last year In Armenia and Crete
but they have not received a single pias
tre of the pay due them and are not like
ly to get anything but hard knocks In
•the coming campaign, If Indeed there Is
to be a war.
The porte has announced blithely It*
Intention to put a hundred and ten
thousand men on the Thessalian frontier,
I
but so far It has been able to obtain
only funds enough to equip and trans
port about 15,000 for that purpose. It
looks as though non-Mussulman finan
ciers and contractors have arrived at the
conclusion tihat the beginning of the end
Is near for the former have tightly closed
their strings and the latter have had the
audacity to press for a settlement of
their long standing accounts, a proceed
ing which is very like crying for the
moon. The porte has got no money, but
he would be oblivious of history who
would lightly assume that the fact indi
cates that Turkey is not in a position to
wage war. The troops who lately passed
through Saleniea were without ambu
lance or surgical appliances of any kind,
but their arms were evidently ail right
and the ammunitions appeared to be am
ple. The artillery, too, was in good con
dition and the batteries were well horsed.
The popular scare over the dangers of
the compartment system of railroad
travel here, a scare which had its origin
in the recent mysterious murder of Miss
Camp, lias been increased this we lc by
two or three fresh outrages. A woman
has be*n the victim in each case, but ,
fortunately the culprits have been ar-.
rested. The panic among women travel*
ers is leading to many absurd and ludi
crous incidents. Few women will now
enter a compartment occupied by a lone
man, and no man cares to enter where
there is only one woman, for her evident
nervousness in mVist cases is by no means
flattering. One thoughtless individual
who found himself alone with a young
woman on a Southwestern railway train
this week was foolish enough to take out
a pocket knife to cut the pages of a mag
azine. His companion at once opened
the door, although the train was run
ning fast and climbed out on the foot
board, shrieking for aid. The passeng-rs
in adjoining compartments heard her and
signalled to the guards, the train was
stopped and the terror-stricken girl res
cued. The public alarm has become so
general that th ■ board f trade has writ
ten a letter saying that they are in com
munication with the railways on the sub
ject, but no plan which would meet gen
eral acceptance has 'been d vised. It
will s cm absurd to American r aders
that the board's consoling reflection Is
that “the question is one of much diffi
culty and It will continue to receive the
best attention of this department.”
The fuct is that it is simply a matter or
expense. Cars of the American pattern,
weight for weight, ■will carry less than
half the number of people conveyed by
the little boxes used on the English rail
ways. There Is an Interesting Illustra
tion on the Southeastern railroad, where
the only American-built train in England
| runs be tween London and Hastings. This
■ train is very popular. Tt has a capacity
of 26(1 passengers. It will, however, he
taken off in summer, when travel is
heavy, because an English train of the
same weight will carry 600 pasengers.
England Is the last place in which one
would expect to And any criticism of the
United States to protect its citizens in
Cuba, and yet even the London Times
comments on the weakness of the Amer
ican government in this respect. The
Havana correspondent of that journal
writes:
“There Is much comment by all classes
on the fact that the United States gov
ernment makes no strong effort to pro
cure protection for the lives and prop
erty of American citizens."
This and another Independent's testi
mony to the weakness of the American
attitude In the face of the gross outrage
and Indignities of the Spanish authori
ties is arousing deep feeling among the
Americans In Europe.
FREE SILVER FIGHT
Must Be Kept Up, Said Bryan, at a Com
plimentary Banquet in New
York City.
New York, Feb. 27.—A complimentary
luncheon was given at the Hotel Bar
thojdi today to W. .T. Brj’-an. Elliott Dan
fort. the chairman of the democratic state
committee, presided, and In responding
to the address of welcome of Danfort,
Mr. Bryan made a red-hot st>cech, en
couraging the bimetallists and declaring
that the free silver fight must go on.
He said In part:
“I have never lost the opportunity since
the election to assure those who labored
for free coinage here that we. who In the
west and south have more «' local vic
tory to rejoice over, recognize the valor
with which you made the fight. I do not
know of any democrat or free silver re
publican or populist who deserves more
credit than those who made the fight
in New York city, which is In the centre
of the gold Influence of the United States.
“I appreciate the work which you have
done and the moral courage which It
has required and when the history of
those years is written, the text man will
have to say that there were heroes In
those days and that New York, New Eng
land and the eastern states furnished
their share of those heroes.
”J want to say to those who have
fought. that the fight is not done. I
have found a great many who had not
been with us before election day or on
election day, who have come to us since
the flection. If your experience has
http the same as mine you will find that
there has been a profound disappoint
ment among many who were led to be
lieve that the maintenance of the gold
standard or the positive declaration that
It would be maintained would restore
confidence, revive business and bring
back prosperity. This has not been the
result.
■ The gold standard Is doing now just
what It has always done.
"It Is helping those who own money
and hurting those who are producing
"I want to say that the agitation will
go on until every American citizen un
derstands the money question and Ihen
we want them to vote on It and settle it.
But I do not. hell-eve any question can
be settled through the Intimidation prac
ticed through money lenders and employ
ers. Men must be free. They must
have the right heart, and I believe the
question cannot he settled until the ver
dict is that of th" right heart and not of
the body bent down urd-r the lash. I
appreciate the opportunity to be with
the *imetalllsts of New York and I shall
be glad to bring back the news that the
bimetallists of New York are not
ashamed of the fight they made.”
ALABAMA SCHOOL HISTORY.
La Fayette Sun.
A most sensible article In the State
Herald of recent date pleading for a
school history of this state has attracted
our attention. A sad fact It Is that we
have no history of Alabama suitable for
use in our public schools. Why this is
true we knew not, unless It Is due to lack
of interest and funds with which to pub
lish such a work. Th-re have been his
tories written such as Hodgson's "Cradle
of the Confederacy,” Hannls Taylor's
"Political History of Alabama,” De j
Leon's "Four Years In Rebel Capitals,''
DuBose's "Life and Times of William L. ;
Yancey,' Brewer's "Alabama,” Ber
ney't: "industrial History of Alabama,”
Riley's “Alabama As It Is,” Willis G.
Clark 's 'Education In Alabama,” Wil
mer's "Recent Past from a Southern
Standpoint," and ' Reminiscences of a
Grandfather." But a work prepared with
a view to use In our public schools Is
the thing needed. There Is a rich field
her* for a brainy young mnn and we
do hope that the day Is not far distant
when such a work, thoughtfully written
and carefully compiled, will be Issued.
We treed it and want it and must have It.
GREECE GIVEN THREE DAYS
In Which to Remove Her Troops
From Crete.
RUS^* SHOWS HER HAND
Seen Be (he Leader of the Powers in the
Latest Movement.
ffl J, TOO, IS GREATLY STIRRED UP
—
erthe Announcement that the Czar Will
Occupy Armenia—Report that King
George Will Abdicate in Fav r
of His Bon,
Berlin. Fell. 27.—-A dispatch from St.
Petersburg published in the I.ondon and.
continental newspapers yesterday pur
porting to describe Russia’s attitude on
the Cretan question and asserting that
the Russian government had ordered
Greece to. recall her troops from Crete
within three days is now known to be
authentic, though its publication has been
late. It is said that Russia agreed to
delay' action three days only on the
strength of representations of the British
and French governments that time ought
to be accorded to the Greek government
in which to consider its position.
The Impetuous action taken by Russia
has certainly ace derated the negotiations
among the powers which are now turn
ing mainly toward a proceedure of coer
cion. Official udvices which have been re
ceived here from Athens have caused the
conviction that fleets of the powers must
make their appearan'ce in the Plreaus be
fore the king of the Hellenes will yield to
the will of the concerted governments
and that his submission will certainly be
accompanied by the resignation of the
On ' k cabinet and probably by the abdi
cation of the Greek monarchy.
A seml-oflicial article in the Pesther
Lloyd conveys the idea that the Austro
Hungarian government, though now fol
lowing the lead of Russia and Germany,
is very much averse to Russia's style of
initiative as affirming her right to be re
garded as the paramount power in the
Balkins. In official circles in Berlin, how
ever, Russia’s haste in the matter is at
tributed to the movements which have
been made by Servia and Bulgaria to
ward an offensive alliance against Tur
key.
King Alexander, of Servia, will start
from Belgrade for Sofia tomorrow, to
confer with Prince Ferdinand, of Bul
garia. upon the situation and. according
to a dispatch published In the Frankfort
Gazette, the governments of Bulgaria and
Servia have demanded from the porte
an explanation of the massing of the
Turkish troops upon the frontier of those
states.
PARIS ALARMED
Over the Report That Russia Has No
tilled the Porte it Will Occupy
Armenia.
London, Feb. 27.—The Observer will to
morrow print a dispatch from Paris, say
ing that alarming rumors are in circula
tion there. If these rumors are true they
show that the situation is extremely
grave. Two of the rumors receive cre
dence. One of them concerns Russia’s
attitude toward the policy of Greece, an
attitude which apparently, nothing will
mitigate. The other is to the effect that
the dragon attached to the Russian em
bassy at Constantinople has notified the
porte that Russia will occupy Armenia if
hostilities break out.
IN THE INTEREST OF MOSLEMS.
Canea, Feb. 27.—Col. Vbsbos, the com
mander of the Greek army of occupation,
has promised to use his influence with
the insurgents at Sellno to obtain the
release of the Moslems who are besieged
there. The result Is awaited with anxi
ety, as the continued confinement of the
Moslems is causing dread of reprisals.
VESTED IN THE CROWN.
Athena. Feb. 27.—In view of the fact
that the chamber has not been in session
for some days past, the leaders of the op
position met today and signed a protest,
which was presented to the king. The
protest declares that the crown is en
titled to act alone in such a case as the
present, and if it does not act the opposi
tion cannot be answerable for the situ
ation.
MOSLEMS RETREATING.
London, Feb. 27.—The Sunday Sun has
a dispatch from Athens saying that 100
Moslems were killed In a battle that
occurred yesterday near Retimo. This
dispatch adds that the Moslems are re
treating, leaving the Christians master
of the fleW.
REPULSED WITH SMALT, I,OSS.
Canea. Feb. 27.—A sharp fight took
place yesterday between Moslems and
Christians near Retimo. The Moslems
were repulsed with small losses.
CAPTURED A GREEK VESSEL.
Canea, Crete, Feb. 27—The Greek
at amer Thesesus has been seized by a
Rrltlsh torpedo boat belonging to the
united fleet, while attempting to land
provisions and munitions of war for
Greek troopis at Platania. Three mem
bers of the Greek troops at Plantanla,
and three members of the Greek cham
ber of deputies, Papakianias, Espanls
and Razelo were on hoard the captured
vessel.
WILL HE ABDICATE?
Paris. Feb. 27.—The Figaro ^sserts
that King George, of Greece, inteftds to
abdicate his throne In favor of his eld
est son, the Crown Prince Constantine.
DIED A NATURAL DEATH.
Madrid, Feb. 27.—-Prime Minister Cano
vas said at a cabinet counsel that the
question between the American and
Spanish governments regarding the
treatment of prisoners in Cuba by Span
ish authorities was not one of Import
ance. He added that an investigation
had shown that Dr. Ruiz. Ihe American
citizen, who, It was asserted, had been
murdered in prison, at Guanabacoa, had
died a natural death.
SMITH GONE WEST.
Atlanta. Ga., Feb. 27.—Oti* A. Smith’s
friends paid the amount of his shortage
to the Georgia Security and Banking
company today and he was released from
Jail. He wept direct to the Union station
and took a train for New Orleans. He had
changed his clothes. Smith said that he
was going west. • ,_BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1897. NUMBER 37
Armor Plate Gives Him Food For
Discussion.
AND LOADING UP HIS GUN
He Turns Loose Right and Left, Sparing None.
Prize Fighters Opened Upon
By Congressmen,
■Washington, March J.—Today the s n
ate In the space of about one hour and
a half passed the District of Columbia
appropriation bill, carrying items to the
amount of $7,444,677, being an excess of
$1,665,000 over the bill as it passed the
house. Half of the amount Is to be paid
out of the treasury of the United States
and half out of the revenue of the District
of Columbia. Then the naval appropria
tion bill was taken up. It carries $85,
728,234, a little over three and a half mil
lions more than the bill contained when
It left the house.
The principal Items of Increase are:
Naval station, Port Royal, S. C„ $50,
000.
Navy yard, Mare Island, Cal., $250,000.
Naval hospital, Port Royal, S. C., $4,000.
Training vessel for naval academy,
$250,000.
Establishing a government armor fac
tory, $2,5'00,000.
In addition to these items the appro
priation committee reports an amend
ment authorizing contracts to be made
for three torpedo boats, not to cost over
$800,000 in all.
While the bill was being read, It was
ordered, at the suggestion of Mr. Allison
that at 6 p. m. the senate shall take a
recess until 8 p. m.
The torpedo boats amendment and all
other amendments up to that point were
agreed to ■without discussion or ques
tion.
The amendment on page 50, of the bill,
providing that ‘‘no contract for armor
plate shall be made at a rate to exceed
$400 per ton;” hnd the connected amend
ment striking out the clause that no por
tion of the armor shall be purchased
un'.'il It has all been contracted for, were
passed over temporarily. Also the
amendment appropriating $2,500,000 for
the establishment of an armor factory.
The remainder of the bill having been
disposed of, the controverted amendments
were taken up.
' The first question on the provision in
the bill that the total cost of the armor
shall not exceed $3,210,000, to which the
senate committee had reported the
amendment that "no contract for armor
plate shall be made at a rate to exceed
$400 per ton.”
Mr. Chandler, republican, New Hamp
shire, moved to amend the senate
amendment by making it read: "No con
tract for armor plate shall be made at
Bn -'-»rage rate to exceed $300 per ton.”
On these several propositions a discus
sion was kept up until half past four
Without any solution of the question.
The bill was laid, aside Informally
without action on the pending amend
ment.
Conferences were ordered on the post
office appropriation hill and on the sun
dry civil appropriation bill.
The credentials of Senators-eleot Tur
ner, of Washington, and Heitfeld, of
Idaho, were read and placed on file.
The senate at 4:30 p. m. proceeded t'o
the consideration of executive business
and at 6 p. m. t„ook a recess until 8 p. m.
When the senate resumed its session at
8 o’clock the naval appropriation bill was
taken up. the pending amendment being
that relative to armor plate.
Mr. Hawley (rep., Conn.) opposed both
the establishment of a government armor
factory and the fixing of the price of
armor at either $300 or $400 per ton. Ho
defended the private manufacturer of
war material and said that Instead of
trying to cheat the government they al
ways sought to give the government the
bist. The builder of a crack cruiser
was prouder than if he had been decor
ated by his government.
Mr. Elkins (rep., W. Va.,)opposed the
expenditure of the $3,210,000 for armor
plate carried by the bill until something
definite was known of thp real cost of ar
mor. He Inveighed against the policy
of buying anything without knowing
anything about Its value. He advocated
a suspension of work on the battleships,
If necessary, for with the congress about
to adjourn with an arbitration with
Great Britain awaiting ratification, with
the Cuban question having the right of
way and Julio Sanguilly on his way to
the senate to see l:is sympathizers there
was no necessity for haste. “The con
tractors refuse to tell the cost of manu
facturing armor,” said Mr. Elkins, "and
therefore says the senator from New
Hampshire (Chandler) we will pay $300 a
ton. Therefore, says the committee on
appropriations we will pay $400 a ton;
and the senator front Maryland (Mr. Gor
man) says ‘Amen; we will pay $400 a ton;’
while we, who furnish the votes, have to
follow them blindly.”
Mr. Tillman said that while he was .a
member of the committee on naval af
fairs he was unable to give Mr. Elkins all
the light he desired, but he knew there
was no expenditures "so reeking with
fraud and so disgustful to those responsi
ble for It.”
He further asserted that trie two armor
making plants in the country, the Bethle
hem and Carnegie plants, instead of com
peting were In collusion to keep up the
price of armor plate. The mere sugges
tion that the government should go Into
the business of manufacturing armor was
sure to raise the spectre of government
ownership of railroads and like concerns.
People spoke of congress controlling the
trusts but instead of this "the trusts had
their hands In our breeches pockets."
He hated to think that these monopo
lies had their paid agents in the senate,
but it looked like it. "I do not want to
say anything harsh.” he went on Im
pressively, "but God knows that 1 believe
every utterance I have made is true.”
This statement carme like u bomb shefl
and led Mr. Hawley to demand whether
the senator from South Carolina dared to
make such a chajrge against the senate.
"1 dare say,” replied Mr. Tillman, de
liberately, "that as far a« I see 1 can ex
plain this on no other prround.”
“And I say,” retorted Mr. Hawley,
"that that Is an unworthy slander, un
worthy of any gentlemen.”
”1 am bound to put two and two to
gether. 1 cannot explain it on any other
hypothesis.” said Mr. Tillman, and he
went on to say that the companies got
their prices “because they have friends
in thla chamber.”
He spoke of the examination made into
the armor furnished by Carnegie some
four years ago when it was shown that
the blow holes were plugged up, the gov
ernment stamp misused and the plates
Improperly tempered, and the secretary
of the navy, through some 'hocus pocus’
lined Mr. Caunegie for furnishing defec
tive plates while ‘our Illustrious president.
Who, God be praised, goes out of power In
three days more, remitted this fine.’ "
It was scandalous that our boasted
navy, "our pet," should be protected by
these "sponge” plates, and the first shot
from a foreign waivhlp would go through
one of these boasted ships and 500 or 600
American seamen are sent to the bottom
of the sea through the frauds perpetrated
in the senate.
Rather than pay any more money to
these armor barons he would rather
build a government factory for the manu
facture of armor, even if i't cost $600 to
$300 a ton, for then there would a.t least
be the consolation of knowing that the
armor was good and the money distrib
uted amorg the workingmen.
In answer to a quesriluon from Mr. Quay
Mr. Tillman said that nothing would be
gained by sending the bill back to the
bouse for that body was In th.‘ power of
the trusts—the Standard Oil company—as
much as the senate, "and every man I'here
was manacled and under the rule of one
man, the speaker, and compelled to crawl
around on their bellies like a worm or
like a whipped cur,”
Mr. Chandler. In a final explanation of
his amendment. Fold there was no such
thing as competition 1n the manufact
ure of armor plate el'iher in this country
or In Europe and that the Bethlehem and
Carnegie plants were members of an In
ternational combine.
His amendment was then adopted with
out division, and the total amounit ap
propriated for armor was reduced from
$3,210,000 to $2,407,500.
The committee amendment appropriat
ing $2,600,000 for a govensment armor
plant was defeated by a vote of 26 to 30.
The bill was then passed and at mid
night the senate adourned until tomor
row.
IN THE HOUSE.
At the opening of the day s session
senate amendments to the sundry civil
appropriation and postofflce appropria
tion bills wece non-eoncurred In and con
ferences were ordered on the bills. Sen
ate amendments were concurred in to tile
bill extending for one year the time for
completing a bridge across the Alaba
ma river near Montgomery.
A bill repealing that secition of the law
providing for sending to Washington by
special messenger presidential election
certificates was passed after an expla
nation by Mr. Mercer, republican, cf Ne
braska, that these certificates could as
well be sent by mail or express and the
present system was costly
Senate bill to extend the use of malls
to postal cards and envelopes owned by
the United States Economic Postage as
sociation was laid on the table.
Mr. Aldrich, republican, of Illinois,
called up the anti-prize-fight bill. The
measure provides that no picture or any
description of any prize fight or encoun
ter of pugilists under whatever name, or
any proposal or record of betting on the
same shaJl be transmitted in the mails of
the United States or by interstate com
merce, whether In a newspaper or other
periodical or telegram, or in any other
form.
bee. 2. That any person sending such
matter, or knowingly receiving such mat
ter for transmission by mail or in orstate
commerce shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by
imprisonment for not more than five
years in the discretion of the court or by
a fine not exceeding $1,000.
Mr. Aldrich, in supporting the measure,
said that all the states of the union, save
one or two, forbid prize fights, which
have been sent to the limbo of condemned
customs with dueling, slavery, lotteries
and polygamy.
The bill simply protected the more ad
vanced states which have forbidden pu
gilism as brutal and brutalizing against
having prize fights brought into their
borders in pictures and description which
are only a little less harmful than the de
grading sport which they describe.
The bill did not forbid a brief state
ment of the fight as a matter of news.
Congress, in its swiftest enactment,
forbade prize fighting in its whole Juris
diction and so drove a prospective prize
fight announced to occur in one of the ter
ritories into the mountains of Mexico)
whose government had also forbidden it.
This bill is but a logical extension and
protection of that act and is in accord
also with another aot of this congress,
approved by this committee and since
enacted into law, prohibiting the inter
state transportation of obscene pictures;
pictures of the brutality of pugilism are
hardly less harmful to our youth. It is
in accord also with the anti-divorce act
of congress, which has protected the
families of the whole land against the di
vorce colonies “of one of the territories.”
This bill calls for immediate considera
tion for manifest reasons. It is believed
the reputable press which describes prize
fights only because of competition, will
welcome this protection.
Mr. Morse (rep., Mass.) advocated the
passage of the measure. He was piled
with questions and in reply to one he
said that he hoped that the outcome of
the coming fight will be that it would be
telegraphed over the country, that the
two brutes had killed themselves. Mr.
Grosvenor (rep., O.) favored the bill. Mr.
Dockery (dem.. Mo.) opposed prize fights,
hut considered this an extraordinary po
sition. It was censorship of the prpss.
If this was done it could be extended to
details of murder and other crimes.
Mr.- Cummings (dem. N. Y.), said that
it could be made to prevent" sending
through the mails hundreds of books now
in print, with pictures of pugilists in
them. It would be Just as well to prevent
commesrce pictures of public men.
Mr. Hepburn (rep. O.), defended the
measure, holding that It would not prove
a censorship on the press.
Mr. yuigg (rep. is. Ymoved to ad
journ pending which Mr. Dockery moved
to lay the bill on the table.
M)i'. Quigg withdrew his motion and Mr.
Payne moved to take a recess.
Mr. Payne withdrew that motion and
the speaker put the question for the third
reading of the bill. The vote resulted:
Yeas, 66, nays, 98.
The motion of Mr Dockery' to lay the
bill on the table was then adopted—yeas,
93; nays. 65. 'Mr. Aldrich demanded the
yeas and nays on the question and they
were ordered.
Pending the roll call Mr. Grosvenor en
deavored to have the bill referred to the
judiciary committee, but the proposition
was rejected. A motion by Mr. Cannon
for a recess until 10 o'clock tomorrow
was agreed to. This leaves the prize
fight In the same position. The yeas and
nays being in order on the motion to lay
it cu the tabje.
SENATE CONFIRMATIONS.
The senate today confirmed the follow
ing nominations:
Postmasters: Virginia—W. T. Ander
son, Norfolk.
Georgia—Alice B. Bussey, Cuthbert.
North Carolina—W. S. Harris. Wilson.
Texas—T. E. Kennard, Long View.
Giles Y. Qrenshaw to be marshal for
the western district of Missouri.
W. W. Elliott to be consulting engineer
of the United States on the international
(water) boundary commission provided
for in the convention! with Mexico of
March ). 1889.
The senate this afternoon discussed the
nomination of Henry E. Davis to be
United States district attorney for the
District of Columbia, and by^ the de
cisive vote of 10 to 17 laid the nomination
on the table.
This is equivalent to a rejection. Ow
ing to the delay of the senate in acting
on 'this wvse, a special bill was passed a
few days ago giving the supreme court
of the district authority to make a tem
porary appointment until the senate act
ed. The court this afternoon appointed
Mr. Davis. The result Is that as soon
after the 1th of March as McKinley can
give the matter his attention he will
name a republican to fill the office.
REX VULCAN II
Thousands Upon Thousands Greet
His Majesty
i _
UPON HIS TRIUMPHAL ENTRY
Into the Beautiful Magic City of 4he South—The
Coming Metropolis.
BIRMINGHAM IS THRONGED WITH VISITORS
Imposing Ceremonial at the Coronation and Presen
tation of the Key of the City—Mayor Evans’ Roy
al Welcome to the Guest—German Court and
Military In Line-^Grand Allegorical Pa
rade and Trade’s Display—Today’s
Interesting Programme, Etc.
i
—
“The king is dead, long live the king.”
By virtue of expiration of service Rex
Vulcan I. is no more, his abdication tak
ing place yesterday afternoon at 1:30
o'clock, exactly one year from the time of
his coronation. *
Promptly at the hour mentioned the
■royal special, bearing the Bucce-sor to
Vulcan I„ his attendants, the royal Ger
man court, committee of reception of the '
Birmingham Carnival society, and his
of tin? royal car, closely followed by his
successor. In a few well chosen words
he placed the royal diaalem upon the fore
head of his successor, thereby proclaim
ing to the world'that Rex. Vulcan I. was
no more and in his stead now ruled Rex
Vulcan II. Immediately a shout arose
which fairly shook the earth.
After the coronation his majesty, Rex
Vulcan II. was led by Grand Marshal E.
J. McCrossln to the royal chariot, where
he, his aides and jester were comfortably
seated. There began the
E. LESSER,
President of Birmingham Carnival Society.
majesty, Rex Vulcan II., rolled Into the
Union passenger station, where an Im
mense concourse of citizens had gathered
to greet the new ruler.
Every steam whistle in the city for the
space of five minutes blasted forth a
welcome to the new ruler. It was a fit
FIRST PARADE.
Grand Marshal McCrossin gave the or
der, “Forward march,” and the proces
sion formed, as already printed In these
columns'andVent over the route mapped
out.
First came Chief of Police T. C. McDon
ald on a coal-black charger, closely fol
MAYOR FRANK V. EVANS.
ting greeting from the many industries
of the city, one attesting the many man
ufacturing enterprises in the Magic City
of the south.
Promptly at 'the appointed hour the
special bearing the reception committee
left the city and at an appointed place
met the* royal train. The debarkation
and change of oars was made and the
return to the city, ae reported above,
occurred.
THE CORONATION.
Immediately on arriving in the station
Rex Vulcan I. appeared on the platform
lowed by a cordon of mounted police.
Then appeared the grand marshal In all
his gay military trappings, riding his
gaily bedecked charger, as well he oan.
Grambs’ royal band followed, discours
ing sweet, stirring, martial music.
The grand marshal’s aides, princes of
the realm and out-riders, all mounted
on splendid chargers, next appeared.
Then followed the military, a noble
looking band of volunteer troops, in
charge of Maj. E. L. Higdon, of the Sec
ond regiment Alabama state guard.
The-Capital City guard®, forty strong,
under command of Capt. W. J. Parkes,
formerly of this city, were In the position
of honor. With martial tread they kept
steps to the stirring note? of the band.
Birmingham battalion followed, with a
full complement from each of the four
companies,
Troop D., Capt. J. B. Morson command
ing, followed. The troops presented a firm
appearance on t'helr well trained horses.
Weber's peerless band followed, mak
ing fine music. The members, of the band
were clad In quaint costumes made up of
Rex colors.
THE CARRIAGES.
In the first carriage appeared the court
jester. He was wide awake and full of
fun. Ills colors were yellow and white.
His royal highness, Rex Vulcan II.,
with his two attendants, appeared In the
next carriage. The mighty ruler, mas
sive in form, gaily attired In royal pur
ple and jewels befitting tils station, was
every Inch a king. He bowed right and
left to the mighty crowds, which surged
here, there and everywhere to meet and
greet him, and shouts were heard on ail
rides. Then came the tally-ho with its
great load of beautiful women. Then
came the royal German court. Kaiser
Wilhelm, Prince Von Bismarck and the
other noted notables of the court, each
with the insignia of their officers, badges,
medals of honor, etc. Their costumes
were perfect, the make up being complete
1n every detail. In fact one acquainted
with the portraits of the many notables
of the court could easily designate them
as they sat in state In their carriages.
This feature of the parade was a happy
E. J. MeCROSSIN, Grand Marshal.
conception, and met with marked ap
proval.
(Then came liie president of the Bir
mingham Carnival society, Mr. Emil
Lesser, with the officers and committees
of that honored society. Each gentle
. man was attired in black, on their
breast appearing beautiful badges an
nouncing thWre respective stations. They
were a manly lot of Birmingham's most
influential citizens.
The royal baggage wagon brought up
the rear.
To the southslde the parade movedt
counter-marching up Twentieth street to
First avenue, thence to Nineteenth
street, out Nineteenth street to Fourth
avenue, where the royal chariot halted in
front of the city hull, the military being
drawn up in line at present arms.
In front of the city hail was the
platform erected for His Honor, Mayor
F. V. Evans and the city fathers. This
platform was beautifully decorated in the
royal colors.
Immediately after the halting of His
Majesty’s carriage, the presentation of
the
KEY OF THE CITY
was made. This pleasant duty fell to
MIAYOR FRANK V. EVANS.
In the following well-chosen words His
Honor presented the massive golden key
gorgeously bedecked in .royal colors:
Your Royal Majesty: It pleases us
much to welcome you to this great young
city, the rendezvous of more than one
hundred thousand of your loyal subjects,
who await to how in your presence, to
do homage to the King, to greet you as
the most worthy descendant of Haphaes
tus and of the royal line of Zeno and
Hera. With eager interest we have
watched the progress of your journey
thitherward from the Orient, and rejoiced
that the gods of storms, of lightning ami
of winds have dealt so kindly with, your
highness and your royal suite.
Birmingham, the on American city for
which you rightly feel such deep concern,
rejoices to have you here. Much, how
ever, do we regret that the work of con
structing the Valley Creek car.al has.not
so far progressed as to allow your royal
fleet to enter this harbor. W? do hope
that at your next coming the wafers
will be so deepened and widened as to
bear you safely from and to the sea.
The oldest Inhabitant tells us that over
there on Red mountain, your paternal
ancestor landed when flung from Olym
pian heights, and that he planted there
the immense beds of iron, from which he
forged and wrought these wonderful
works of art for which tradition ascribes
to him all honor and praise. There are
no divine marines now living here to re
ceive you, hut ail of Birmingham and the
legions of your loyal subjects, who are
with us today, would wish you could
ever remain here in the very shadow of
the scene of your ancestor’s world-fa
raous acnievemeraxs.
Time has wrought many changes since
first the earth received the Imprint of the
feet of your royal house, but while Bir
mingham has grown great, Ely ton still
lives as of yore, and the blasts and forges
of these great furnaces and workshops
have made no visible impress as yet upon
your ancestor’s planting. “He builded
bettor than he knew,” and for the use of
centuries yet unborn. Then why should
not Birmingham pay homage to the no
ble scion of such a sire?
By command of the people of Birming
ham a board of City fathers, who dare
do the right, I present to you the key to
the city. I yield the charge to you.
Seize the treasury, command the popu
lace, and should any man dare to resist
p. single one of your royal edicts, com
municate the Insubordination to me, and
—I’ll report him to the police commission,
that Justice may be delt out to him ac
cording to the rules of the royal court of
Feagan. Accept this key, not as a
scepter swung from the hands of a re
luctant foe, but as an emblem of a gift
of the freedom of the city.
GRAND MARSHAL’S REPLY.
In a few well chAsen and timely words
Grand Marshal MeCrossln replied for his
majesty, Rex Vulcan II., accepting the
key which Implied the freedom and hos
pitality of the Magic City of the south.
He stated that his majesty had come
from his home in the far away Congo
Free State, Africa, to visit his faithful
subjects In the province of Birmingham.
That he was profoundly impressed with
the gorgeously bedecked city, the im
mense outpouring of people and the mag
nificent splendor of his reception. He
v.-as proud of the greatest city Ira the
south, and, In fact, the coming city of
America.
In token of the presenta tion of the key
of the city his royal highness bestowed a
like honor upon the chief magistrate of
the city. The royal emblem, a medal
made of Birmingham Iron, Imported to
Congo Free State for that especial pur
pose.
The grand marshal gracefully pinned
•thg medal In place and then his majesty
bowed to the city officials. The proces
sion again moved out Nineteenth street
to Sixth avenue, thence to Twentieth
street, down Twentieth street to First
avenue, out First avenue to Twenty-sec
ond street, countermarching and pass
1 tCoutlnueo on Second Page.)
THE INHUMAN TREATMENT
/£ *
Of Charles Scott By Spanisl^u
thorities £
_ /h
EXPOSED BY GENER^” LEE
Without Chair or Bed, Confined Cell With
Water On the Floor But none To
Drink For Fourteen Days..
Washington, D. C., (March 1.—The cor
respondence of the department of state
with Consul General Lee at Havana In
the case of Charles Scott, an American
citizen, which was laid before the senate
tonight confirms the published story that
General Lee threatened to resign unless
the department: supported him In his de
mand that Scott be released from solita
ry confinement.
The correspondence is much like half
a conversation by telephone, as the tele
grams sent to the department by Gen.
Lee only are transmitted, the department
end of Che interchange being omitted.
Feb. 9, General Lee wired the state de
partment: “Chari s Scott, an American
a'crestcd at Regia this morning. Charges
not yet known."
The nfxt is dated Feb. 20, and says
Scott has been in Jail In Havana without
communication for 261 hours. The des
patch continues: "Cannot stand another
Ruiz murder and have demand d Ills re
lease. How manyWarships at Key West •
or within reach, and will they be ordered
here at once if necessary to sustain de
mand?”
Feb. 23. be again telegraphs Secretary
Olney, evidently replying to inquiries ajid
In language Wat can scarcely be mis
undi.stood: “Situation simple. Experi
ence at Guanabac. a made It my duty to
demand, before too late, that another
American had been incomundlcadio 264
hours be released from said incomur.dl
cadio and I dJ-I so in curteous terms. If
you support it and Scott is so released
the trouble will terminate. If you do not,
I must depart. All others arrested with
Scott have been put in communication.
Why should the only American in the lot
not be? He has been inoomundicadio
now 33S hours.”
The correspondence closes with hi tele
gram of the same date In which Gen. Lee
informed the state department that his
demand had been complied \\itb, fnd
that Scott had been released from Incom
municadlo, after fourteen days solitary
confinement in a damp cell five feet by
eleven, with water on the floor. "He was
not allowed a chair, or anything to sleep
on," the telegram concludes, “and dis
charges of the body were removed only
once in five days. Scott says he went
always twelve hours without water. Scott
wa3 charged with having Cuban postage
stamps in his house. Also that he was
an employ of an American Gas com
pany.”
In regard to the arrest of F. J. Cas
eanas, an American citizen, Gen. Lee on
Feb. 17, in a'rfispatch announcing his ar
rest, denounced It as a great outrage and
said there were similar cases- In Sagua
and elsewhere on the Island. The de
partment six days later ordered Lee to re
port on the whole facts and on Feb. 24,
Lee replied that Caseanas Insisted his
treaty right should be respected. The
prisoner had resided In Sagua since his
registration there In 1872. The other dis
patches show the number of h!s resig
nation entry, number of passport, etc.,
and concludes with a dispatch dated Feb.
27 leaving the matter undisposed of.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 1.—Mardi Gras
opened here today and the city Is Jam
med with visitors, the fine weather bring
ing about 4,000 people to the race course.
The track was nearly dry again and
backers dud well, three favorite's winning.
The carnival handicap of $1,000 went to
Sim W.
First Rare—Six furlongs. Lillian E.,
100 (C. Reiff), 7 to 1, won; Strathreel. sec
ond; Senator Morrill, third. Time,, 1:17%.
Seoond Race—Seven furlongs. Parme
san, 07 <T. Burns), 3 to 1; The Plutocrat,
second; Harry S., third. Time, 1:31.
Third Race—Mile and a quarter. On
dague. 103 (C. Reiff), 3 to 5, won; Otho,
second; Bizarre, third. Time, 2:13%.
Fourth Race—Carnival handicap, $1,000,
seven furlongs. Sim W.. 108 (A. Clayton),
8 to 5, won: Honor second: Grayling,
third. Time, 1:31%.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs. Hums, 100
(T. Burns). 9 to 2, won; Alkyrls, second;'
Sugar Cane, third. Time, 1:16%.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Dead heat
between Fischer. 97 (Dorsey), 5 to 2. and
Dverflow. four lengths from Spinola., 95
(Gutters). 20 to 1, third. Time. 1:17%.
SAN FRANCISCO RESULTS.
San Francisco, Cal., March 1.—Results
of today’s races:
First Race—Seven furlongs, selling. Oa
melia, 108 (Martin), 5 to 1. won; Road
Runner, second; Meadow Lark, third.
Time, 1:32.
Second Race—Mile, purse. Charle
magne, 93 (Slaughter), 7 to 1. won: Play
Boy, second; Tar and Tartar, third.
Time, 1:46%.
Third Race—Seven furlongs, selling.
Outta J’ercha, 111 (Martin). 7 to 1, won;
Double Quick, second; Frank K., third.
'Time, 1:30%
Fourth Race—Six furlongs, purse. Mid
night, 99 (Slaughter), 13 to 5. won; Ap
plause, second; Greyhurst, third. Time,
1:16%.
Fifth Race—Declared off.
Sixth Race—Five furlongs, pursi;. True
Blue, J14 (Plggott), 3 to 1, won; The Sin
ner, second; Meroutlo, third. Time,
1:03%.
Seventh Race—Mile, purse. Colonel
Wheeler, 96 (Jones). 3 to 1, won; Stentor,
second; Imp. Ivy, third. Time. 1:46%.
ALL NEWS TO HER.
Mobile, Ala., March 1.—A dispatch sent
out from Washington Friday and printed
in the New Orleans papers Saturday
morning stated that Henry W. McDon
nell, a planter of Point Clear, A.a., who
owns a large plantation fifteen miles
from Havana, and who Is direct from
Cuba, Is in Washington and has com
plained of the Indignities put upon him
by the Spaniards. Mrs. McDonnell, who
claims to he the wife of Henry McDon
nell, of Point dear, called at the Register
ofllee today for information relative to
t ha sou reel of the dispatch. She said that
It was all news to her. She said that she
had a lettar from her husband last week
and at that time he was In Cincinnati.
He had been away from home not more
than a week, and she had no knowledge
of his ever having been in Cuba or of
owning a plantation there. She was not
very communicative and only gave the
above information after repeated interro
gations. In appearance she was comely,
but very plainly attired and did not look
much like the wife of a man who waa
able to own a plantation In Cuba.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1897. ' NUMBER 38
THE HOUSE RAISED ft KICK
Because of the Erection of the
Inaugural Stand.
AN OLD CUSTOM IGNORED
Until After Midnight the Senate Was In Session
—House Also Enjoyed Long Hours—
Another Presidential Veto.
Washington, March 2.--Legislative
business went on in the senate today
smoothly with very little discussion. The
only bill passed was one for the preven
tion of the introduction and spread of
contagious and infectious diseases in the
United States, the preamble to it recit
ing “the alarming nature and spread of
bubonic plague row prevalent in India
and adjacent countries.”
The fortifications bill, appropriating
$9,717,141, was passed without a word of
discussion, except a short speech from
Mr. Hawley (rep.. Conn.) criticising the
fact that the fluctuations on forts whose
efficient arming some $36,000,000 have
been spent are- left practically without
garrisons and that there are no men
trained as artillerymen to manage the
splendid steel guns provided by the lib
erality of congress.
The house amendments to the senate
international money conference were
concurrd in without discussion, but only
after several short speeches from silver
senators. Mr DuBols, of Idaho, de
clared his conviction that the only way to
reach an International agreement was for
this nation to stand out as in 1776 and
declare its ability to run her own affairs.
Speeches of a somewhat similar tendency
were made by Senators Cannon, of Utah;
Teller, of Colorado; Mantle, of Montana,
and Morgan, of Alabama, the latter stat
ing that he would probably be the only
senator who would vote against the bill.
The remainder of the day’s session
was occupied by the general deficiency
bill which appropriates $10,334,939, $2,
000,000 more than the bill originally con
tained .as passed before.
At &:30 a recess was taken until 8 p. m.
When the senate resumed Its session
at 8 p. m , house bill Imposing heavier
penalties for mutilating coins was taken
from the calendar and passed. It in
creases the penalty from two to five year3
imprisonment and makes unlawful the
a-ttempt to pass, the Importation of and
the possession of mutilated domestic and
foreign coin with intert to defraud, as
well as the mere act of mutilation.
A partial agreement was agreed to on
the sundry civil bill and a further con
ference asked on the amendments yet in
dispute.
Of the 192 amendments made by the
senate the conferees disposed of 114, re
commending that the house agree to
amendments amounting -to $451,735 and
that the senate recede from amendments
amounting to $208,849.
The house subsequently voted to accept
the senate amendment making payments
for claims for sugar bounty under the
McKinley law amounting to $1,085,000.
A conference report on the Indian ap
propriation bill was presented, but it was
unsatisfactory to the senate and was dis
agreed to and a new conference ordered.
The general deficiency bill was next
taken up and passed. IThe provision for
the payment to the Southern Pacific Rail
way company of $1,410,427 was amended
so as to provide that the money be re
tained In the treasury until the final ad
justment of the debts of the Pacific rail
roa ds.
At 12:25 a. m. the senate adjourned until
f n m nrrnw
IN THE HOUSE.
The old controversy between the sen
ate and the house over the matter of
control of the ceremonies In connection
with the inauguration of the president
came to the surface when the house re
assembled at 10 o’clock In continuation of
Monday’s legislative session. Mr. Dock
ery (dem. Mo.), offered a resolution
which was referred to the committee on
rules directing the committee to Investi
gate and report by what authority the
Inaugural stand was being erected wholly
in front of the senate wing of the capi
tal, in violation of usage since the build
ing was erected; also to inquire and re
port whether or not the house had any
control over the Inaugural ceremonies.
The naval and district of Columbia ap
propriation bills were received from the
senate. The house voted to nonconcur in
the amendments made by that body.
When the house convened for Tuesday’s
session Mr. Dalzell (rep. Penn.), in ac
cordance with the promise made some
days ago, replied upon strictures passed
upon Justice Shiras by Messrs. McMlllin
(dem. Tenn.), and DeArnrond (dem. Mo.),
in connection with the decision of the
court upon the income tax bill. He as
serted that the record of the case gave
no ground for the charge that Justice
Shiras had changed his mind and that
it showed that Justice Brown had done
so. I
Messrs. McMlllin and DeArmond re
fused to accept the statement of Mr. Dail
zell and reaffirmed the charges.
A concurrent resolution was passed
authorizing the printing of 10.000 copies
of the hearings before the committee on
banking and currency. A motion to sus
pend the rules and pass the bill providing
for a settlement by suit or compromise
of the claims of the United Sta tes against
various states on account of the default
ed Interest on Indian trust funds was de
feated.
Mr. Aldrich (rep. Til.), endeavored to
bring up the bill prohibiting the transmis
sion of papers containing Illustrated ac
counts of prize fights, but the house
voted 72 to 33 to take a recess. At 4:40
the house took recess uptil 7:30 p. m.
As soon as the house re-assembled In
the evening Speaker Reed laid before the
house a rnessag from Prsldent Cleveland
vetoing the Immigration rstrlctlon bill.
Mr. Rartholdt (rep., Mo.) moved that
the consideration of the message be post
poned until 1 o'clock tomorrow when
there would doubtless be a farger attend
ance than was present now. This was
agreed to—104 to 11.
The partial report of the conference on
the sundry civil bill was agreed to and
the house Insisted on Its disagreement to
the amendments still In dispute and or
dered a further conference.
IMMIGRATION HILL VETOED.
President Cleveland Vetoes the Bill on
Account of Faulty Construction.
Washington, March 2.—The president
today sent to the house a message veto
ing the immigration bill, entitled "An act
to amend the Immigration laws of the
United States" upon the general ground
that its provisions are unnecessarily
barsh and oppressive and that Its defects
in construction would cause vexation and
its operation would result in harm to our
ctzens.
The message is the longest of the kind
that President Cleveland has written He
takes up the different provisions of the
bill in detail, finds objections to each of
tbem and refutes the arguments that
'
have been advanced from time to time
by the advocates of the bill. He gives
greate.r space to objections to the educa
tional clause than to any other. Of it he
says:
“In niy opinion it is infinitely more safe
to admit a hundred thousand immigrants
who though unable to read and write
seek among us only a home and oppor
tunity to work than to admit one of those
unruly agitators and enemies of govern
mental control who cannot only read and
write, but delights in arousing by in
flammatory speech the illiterate and
peacefully inclined to discontent and tu
mult. Violence and disorder do not orig
inate with illiterate laborers. They are
rather the victims of educated agitators.
'The ability to read and write as required
in this bill, in and of itself, affords in
my opinion a misleading test of contented
industry and supplies unsatisfactory evi
dence of desirable citizenship or a proper
appreciation of the benefits of our institu
tions. If any particular element of our
illiterate immigration Is to be feared
for other causes than illiteracy, these
causes should be dealt with daily instead
of making illiteracy the pretext for ex
clusion to the detriment of other illiter
ate immigrants against whom the real
cause of complaint cannot be alleged.”
The president does not find merit in
any feature of the bill and characterizes
it as a whole ss a radical departure from
our national policy relating to immigra
tion.
SOUTH CAROLINA FRAUDS.
Washington, March 2.—Mr. Atwood
(rep., of Mass.) submitted to the house
today the report cf the committee ap
pointed to Investigate the alleged South
Carolina election frauds. The commit
tee unanimously agreed in a statement
that the questions raised are of grave
importance, but on account of the inabil
ity of tile present house to consider tfiem
they recommend that the matter be re
ferred to the Fifty-fifth congrss for its
consideration.
AT CARSON CITY.
Both Pugilists In Fine Condition—The
Coliseum Nearing Completion—
Sporting Men Begin to
Arrive.
Carson1, Nev., March 2.—Nobody could
withstand the temptation to venture out
today and with the exception of Dan
Stuart all invalids from visiting colony
were about town.
Stuart yielded to a good appetite this
morning and now regrets having eaten
so much breakfast. His physician or
dered him back to bed, and he is once
more on the exclusive list. George Siler
still talks under his vest, but his sore
throat is mot very troublesome and he is
able to attend to business.
Corbett gave up the entire day to his
wife and sister who decorated his quar
ters and received visitors. In the even
ing he limbered up a little at hand ball
but did not attempt any heavy work.
Fitzsimmons changed his mind about
visiting Carson today and shortly before
moon he closed in on the tail board of
a buggy and asked the driver to whip
up. The animal in front was a speedy
trotter but Fitzsimmons hung on the en
tire distance to the city, which was
reached in twelve minutes. Stepping up
to a punching machine at the end of his
trip he sent the indicator spinning up
to the 800 pound mark with a straight
left jab. Going home lie took matters
easy and ate a hearty dinner. Bob com
plained of a soreness about his Joints
which is probably the result of the cold
he has been nursing.
The hot springs at the slate pen have
done him a world of good and he expects
that before the week is over all lameness
will have disappeared. He began work
in the afternoon with a 14-round battle
with the punching bag, going rather care
fully as the bag in use was the only one
in repair. Within a vroek the Australian
has worked a dozen of the strongest bags
manufactured, and Julian has ordered a
double supply in case of emergency.
“I like to see Bob use up leather that
way,” said Julian to a group of report
ers; “it shows that he still has a few
punches left in him. It takes a hard
blow to rip one of these hags, but they
last no time when he once gets going."
“You should see the letters we are get
ting,” he continued. “Every crank in the
country has a sure cure for colds and
the number of knock-out blows which
have been recommended to us is simply
amazing. The letters are very cheer
ing to Bob, though, as they convince him
more thoroughly than ever that the
American public is behind him in this
fight.”
The wrestling mattress was rolled out
after Fitzsimmons had finished with the
punching bag and Boebcr stripped for
action. A crippled finger prevented the
wrestler from appearing at his best and
Bob rolled him about as he pleased. When
the floor was cleaned again Hickey and
Stenzler were polished off in short order
and the Cornlshman apparently forglt
all about his stiff elbows. He put both
his opponents right and left without any
exertion and showed greater speed than
he has yet displayed. Those who sat
about the dance hall watching the ex
ercise left the building convinced that
Fitzsimmons would give his backers a
warm run for their money.
Over at the coliseum everything is go
ing ship shape and seats are already
in place for quite a comfortable num
ber.
Mr3. Corbett and the champion's sister
concluded tonight to remain over Mon
day.
Mysterious Billy Smith dropped from
the eastern train tonight and wandered
up to Dan Stuart’s headquarters. He is
twelve pounds over weight, but In good
condition. Smith was not over pleased
with the training quarters secured! for
him in Carson, and will probably head
for Dayton, a small village fourteen miles
to the southward, in the morning.
Martin Flaherty, the feather-weight
who is to meet Dal Hawkins, will be here
tomorrow.
HOBART ARRIVES.
Washington, March 2.—The special
train bearing Vice-President-elect Ho
bart and party arrived at the Baltimore
& Ohio station at 3:30 o'clock this after
noon. There were no special demon
strations attending Mr. Hobart's recep
tion. Governor Gilggs and staff accom
panied the party and were the first to
alight from the train. The vice-president
elect and Mrs. Hobart and their young
eon were In the last oar. They were met
by the District reception committee, con
sisting of Vice-Chairman I.ewis D. Wine,
General Butlerworth, General W. W.
Dudley and Mr. Henry T. Davis. The
vice-president-elect's appearance was the
signal for one outburst of enthusiasm
from the little party who were fortunate
enough to get through the gates. A
like demonstration met them as they
came from the building and started for
the A:\llngton Hotel.
OTIS SMITH INDICTED
Atlanta, Ha., March 2. -The grand Jury
found an indictment today against Otis
O. Smith for embezzlement. He will be
brought back for prosecution if he can
be found. The grand Jury is investigat
ing the matter ot his release, which was
secured by his payment of a part of the
money which he had embezzled. This i*
pronounced to be compounding a felony.
CARNIVAL OVER
In a Blaze of Glory and Splendor
The Finale Came.
BASIL M. ALLEN WAS THE KING
The Fair Lady Who Wore The Queenly Crown Was
Miss Momie Terrell.
TRADES DISPLAY WAS SIMPLY BEWILDERING
While the Night Parade Far Outshowti That of Mardi
Gras Eve Iti Point of Splendor—Rex Ball the
Grandest Event In the History of Bir
mingham—Coliseum Hardly'
Large Enough to Accom
modate the Dancers.
Carnival Notes.
It is all over.
Where yesternight all was glory and
mirth solemn and holy Lent now pre
vails.
Birmingham has had her second carni
val and great l't was. The Birmingham
Carnival society have outdone them
selves and all today are singing their
praise.
The second annua] Mardi Gras celebra
tion of the Birmingham Carnival society
has exceeded the fondest expectations of
their greatest and most ardent admirers.
In every single particular it was a suc
cess and each individual member has just
cause to congratulate himself.
Never before in the history of the city
has there been two such great gatherings
as were those of Monday and yesterday.
The city was literally filled to overflow
ing and well were the visitors paid for 1
coming.
Mobile and New Orleans have had their
carnivals, but neither, all things con
sidered, have excelled 'those of the Magic
Cl'ty
Mueh had been promised the people by
the State Herald and other papers of this
city, as regarded the parades of the Car
nival society, yet many there were who 1
said candidly last night that ''the half
had not been told.”
Neither time nor money had been
spared to make the second annual cele
bration of Mardi Gras by the Birming
ham Carnival society, and their efforts
will undoubtedly meeit the approbation
of every one. ■
nificent, being one of the best ever seen
In this city and Justly deserving the first
place In the parade. Massive pillars up
held a roof, fur covered, the pillars be
ing Immense rolls of beautiful carpet. A
magnificent display was on the float.
Kemper & Co. presented his majasty,
the Yellow Kid, In all his happy conceit,
riding on the back of a monster elephant,
accompanied by a large number of Ho
gan’s alley kids.
Peter Zinzer's float came next. It was
gorgeous and displayed the wares dis
pensed by that well known firm.
The Blddle-Ledbetter company had a
float In line, which, In point of excellence,
was worthy of more than passing admir
ation. All kinds of bicycles were to be
seen, grouped appropriately, to advan
tage.
The Northington-.Pratt-Munger Gin
company were the next contributors.
Their exhibit was of special Interest to
the farming element among the visitors.
On a large float there was displayed a
piece of machinery entitled the coming
cotton picker. It was a peculiar design
representing one of their latest pieces of
machinery made at their works. The
machine was In operation and cast forth
immense quantities of seed cotton like
snow.
The Southern railway and Alabama
Great Southern consolidated exhibit was
unique and attracted much attention.
The engine, an exact reproduction of one
of their flyers, was a great piece of work
manship
The Birmingham Mattress company
came next with a creditable exhibit of
their manufactured products,
McMlllln-Lee company, with a float
advertising a certain brand of their
goods, came next.
Louis Saks contributed a modest, yet
attractive, float. Two lions rampant on
a globe was the design.
3. L. Chalifoux & Co. contributed an
excellent float. The design was a globe
and African lion rampant.
The Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea
company had out a beautiful d. sign
which really deserved more than a pass
ing notice, although the design was in
tricate and hard to ravel yet represent
ing the company excellently.
William C. Stephen had for represen
tation a delivery wagon gaudily decked
with Mat'd! Gras colors.
The Hopkins 'Stove company had out
their tricycle Impelled by a monster in
oestume. He appeared a veritable giant
In size.
B. P. Roden & Co. had a lively design
as an advertisement.
Grambs' Military band came next. This
excellent band rendered soul-stirring mu
sic as they marchedi along. The band was
the largest in the parade.
THE ITALIAN SOCIETY.
Next oam the contribution of the Bir
mingham Italian society. It was a hap
pily chosen topic and evinced great
praise.
SECOND DAY.
The second day of t'he celebration of
Mardi Gras by the Birmingham Carnival
society was ushered in with a scattering
canopy of clouds adorning the sky, but
the threatened rain failed, fortunately,
to come, and the afternoon display,
known as the trades display, came off as
advertised and with a grandeur never
before seen in this, city and fur beyond
the expectancy of any one not on the
inside.
The parade was fully one mile long and
was more than an hour passing a given
point. As on the day before the streets
were almost impassable, so packed with
a mass of moving humanity were they.
How It happened that no casualties oc
curred lit is almost Impossible to imagine,
but the escape was entirely due to the
credit of the efficiently of the Birming
ham police department, which was ad
mirably well handled by the chief and
his able lieutenant.
As the parade appeared at the head
of 20th street the crowd along that
avenue became restless and impatient,
although the very best of good humtir
prevailed and there was a marked ab
sence of pushing and shoving. First
came Chief McDonald and aides, follow
ed by Grand Marshal McCrossin and his
aides, some thirty in number, all mount
ed on prancing chargers.
Then came the deposed monarch, Rex
Vulcan I., with about forty princes and
sir knights.
The Capital City guards, Capt. Parkes
commanding. This crack company was
frequently cheered as it marched along
with a step buoyant and steady as If they
were veterans of many wars. A manly
set of men are they and all Birmingham
is proud that they have visited us.
"Weber’s band followed In costume, dis
coursing sweet music in a creditable
manner.
■rii-si ramt a. nmg on a prancing cnar
ger, a large number of mailed knights
ridilng hard behind him, a courier bear
ing a design flag with the inscription
“King and Princes In Search of a Prin
cess."
The float wh'leih followed explained the
Inscription. In the centre of the float rose
a post to which was chained a beautiful
Woman. Around and bove and below the
chained Princess was a massive and
fierce looking dragon, his Jaws extended
and forked tongue darting forth from the
oavemious depths of the throat. A
mailed knight stood with a spear poised
and apparently about to Btrlke to death
the monster. The float was grand in con
ception and evoked great praise.
WHOLESALE MERCHANTS OF MOR
RIS AVENUE.
The Tally-h'o came next, drawn by 32
ga'lly caparisoned horses, on each of
which appeared the name of a wholesale
bouse on Morris avenue. On the s:ats of
the tally-ho appeared, representatives of
the following firms: Dispatch Printing
company, B. F. Roden & Co., McMlllin
Lee company, D. R. Copeland & Oo.,
McLester & VanHoose, Houston Biscuit
company, Collins & Co., F. F. Norton,
Olaeopazzi & Co., J. H. McCary & Co.,
Williams & Marks, Hudson & Co., Simon,
Durham & Co.
“The Fair," John W. O'Neill & Co., pre
sented for the pleasure of the onlookers
a beautiful float. This was a gorgeous
affair, especially as there appeared upon
It a quartette of as pretty little Misses
as one meets In a day's journey. On
either end appeared pieces of household
necessities. At the rear was a monster
range, a chef, imported from the white
house for the occasion, presiding. He
was busily engaged In preparing dainty
viands for the quartette who were as fol
lows: Misses Julia Vigo and Annie
Peace in mardl gras costume, guests of
(he occasion, and Misses Nellie McPoland
and Leonora O'Neill in garbs composed
of colors of the United States flag. A
beautiful China tea service was on the
table, which was set beneath a beautiful
canopy, arrayed In flowers.
Hummer soap was advertised on the
next float.
The Birmingham Market company had
a wagon filled with vegetables
The Wade Tailoring company came
next In line.
The Hillside dairy was nex: with a
bevy of youngsters drinking wholesome
fluid from massive bottles.
Last, but by bo means least, appeared
the display of the Schlllinger Brewing
company, a large float advertising their
<
THE KING.
Then came his majesty, Rex Vulcan I
II,, upon a gaudily bedecked charger,
robed In, his kingly attire, the observed of
all observers. As yet his Identity had not
been made known and many were the
conjectures as to whom he was. On
either side of his majesty rode an aid
and the royal jester was always near at
hand.
THE CARNIVAL, SOCIETY OFFICERS.
Next appeared the efficient officers of
the Birmingham Carnival society in
carriages. Each carriage was greeted
at all points along the line of march by
the thousands who were the recipients of
pleasure from their indomitable efforts.
CITY OFFICIALS.
Next oame the mayor, Hon. Frank V.
Evans and the board of aldermen and
officers of the city in carriages.
The members of the Birmingham police
commission came next in a carriage, all
of them being present except Mr. Emil
Lesser, who, being president of the Car
nival society, appeared elsewhere in the
parade.
The Imperial German court came next
in carriages, each appearing as dignified
and grave as the occasion warranted.
Sehwend's band came next and dis
coursed stirring music for the delectation
of the crowds.
The first float to appear in sight was
that of the Birmingham Deutcher Turn
Verein, which was neat In design and
admirably well gotten up. On this float
were a large number of members of the
society in uniform.
THE TRADES DISPLAY.
Then came the trades display, which
would have done credit to any city in the
United States.
Loveman, Joseph & Loeb were the first
contributors. As is usual with this en
terprising firm their display was mag
latest addition to their many beverages
extracted from malt.
NIGHT PARADE.
•The parade of Monday night and the
trades display of yesterday afternoon
only served to whet the appetites of the
multitude for the grand finish and long
before the appointed hour every available
space where any of the parade could be
seen was occupied. The sidewalks and
even Its streets were packed and jammed
with people and on all sides nothing but
a moving, living mass of humanity could
be seen.
When the parade came into view a
mighty shout went up on all sides.
The route of march, as previously an
nounced, was as follows:
ROUTE OF PARADE.
The procession formed on Eighteenth
street and Eighth avenue, with the right
of column resting on Eighth avenue. At
6:30 p. m. the command “march” was
given by the grand marshal, upon which
the parade proceeded south on Eigh
teenth street to Sixth avenue, then on
south side of Sixth avenue to Twentieth
street, then south on west side of Twen
tieth street, then south on west side of
Twentieth street to Avnue E, then coun
termarch on east side of Twentieth street
to First avenue, then east on the south
side of First avenue to Twenty-first
street, then north on Twenty-first street
to Second avenue, then west on Second
avenue to Nineteenth street, then south
on Nineteenth to First avenue, then west
on First avenue to Eighteenth street,
then north on Eighteenth street to Ninth
avenue and disbanded.
ORDER OF PARADE.
Following was the order of the parade:
Cortege of mounted police, headed by
their chief.
Grand marshal and couriers.
Aides-de-camp to grand marshal.
Band of music.
Infantry, Birmingham Balallion Com
panies C, G, K and L, and visiting troops,
under command of Maj. Higdon.
Troop D, First Cavalry Squadron, un
der command of Capt. J. B. Morson.
Royal escort of princes.
Band of music.
Float, subject: Boeuf gras.
Prince of Timbustu, in carriage.
Float, subject: His Majesty, Rex Vul
can II.
Royal baggage vans.
Prinz of Zumba, in carriage.
EIGHT FLOATS ILLUSTRATING
“SLEEPING BEAUTY.”
Float: Celebrating Beauty’s birth.
Prince of Kolobeng, in carriage.
Float, subject: The Curce of the
Witch.
Prince of Madagascar, in carriage.
Float, subject: Sleeping Beauty.
Illuminating float.
Prince of Ondonga, in carriage.
Float, subject: Awakening of Beauty.
Prince of Jambesi, in carriage.
Float, subject: Rejoicing in the Awak
ening.
Prince of Kilmandjara, In carriage.
Float, subject: Reception of Prince.
Prince of Janguebar, in carriage.
Float, subject: Marriage of Beauty
and Ince.
Prince of Mozambigue, in carriage.
Float, subject: Fantasy (Rainbow)!
Band of music.
Floats of private firms, individuals and
societies, groups of character masks,
mounted or in carriages, etc., etc.
This latter was an exact reproduction
of the trades display, appearing more
gorgeous under the bright glare of elec
tric lights, atded by red fire.
Review of allegorical floats for the
benefit of those who were not acquainted
with the history of the allegorical floats
we reproduce the following, which ap
peared in the State Herald carnival edi
tion:
“Once upon a time there lived a beauti
ful princess, who was the only child of a
king and queen, who lived but for her.
There was great rejoicing at her birth,
and the king invited twelve fairies to be
her god mothers. Unfortunately there
was one wicked fairy, who haul been
omitted, and resolved to revenge the in
sult.
She accordingly attended me oanquei
■where she had lb eat from a silver plate,
the poor king only possessing a dozen
gold ones. This Increased 'her rage (she
wasn't n silver man anyway) and when
all the fairies ware endowing the little
princess with the various gifts of beauty,
amiability, etc., she stepped forward and
decreed that the child ^should die, the
first time she pricked hei^finger. Luckily
in her anxiety to punish the offenders
she had usurped the time of the twelfth
fairy, who now stepped forward and did
what she oould to ameliorate the dreadful
fate of the unhappy child. She decreed
that the child should n-ot die, but sleep
100 years. (The first float portrays this
interesting scene.)
"The poor baby, who in addition to all
her other tribulations labored under the
disadvantage of having no name but
Sleeping Beauty, grew up into a. very
beautiful, happy and good girl. The
king, being a good man, had banished
from the kingdom all sharp-pointed in
struments, including pins, needles, spin
dles and1 the like, thinking that he might
then guard his child against the bad
witch's curse. But the wicked fairy was
ndt to be so thwarted. Disguised as an
old woman she smuggled a spinning
wheel into the castle garret, and one day
when the princess happened to be wan
dering about there In search of something
to amuse herself with, life being very dull
at the castle, she came upon the old
dame, and begged to be taught the use
of this Interesting thing. The old lady
willingly complied, whereupon the prin
cess of course immediately proceeded to
prick her finger with the spindle. (This
thrilling moment Is the subject of another
float.)
"Thereupon she descended to her room,
where she arranged herself In a most be
coming attitude on her couch and went
to sleep. (The ravishing picture displayed
by the next float will testify to hen ex
cellent taste and knowledge of eiTects.)
The other people In the kingdom, howev
er, not having been warned by pricking
their fingers had to go to sleep Just as
they were, and very funny some of them
must have looked.
“At the end of a hundred years the
twelfth fairy gave a flower and a pair of
wings to an eligible young prince with
the injunction that he should seek a
maiden more beautiful and Bweet than
the blossom he held. After many advent
ures the flower finally guided him to the
enchanted palace where the sleeping
princess lay. At the sight of her wonder
ful beauty the prince was so overcome
with delight that he bent forward and
kissed her. The magic kiss awoke the
sleeping princess and all her court to
new life. Each person resumed the oc
cupation he had gone to sleep over a
hundred years ago; the king went back
to his dinner, grumbling that It had got
ten cold; the butler finished drinking the
wine he had gone to steep over, In the
pantny; the king’s valet finished making
love to the waiting maid; and the
princess finished in real life the dream
of true love and the prince which she
had been dreaming for a hundred years.
“After they had had a good spring
houseoUonlng to get rid of the spiders,
etc., which had not been sleeping dur
ing the hundred years, the king gave hla
consent to the marriage of his daughter,
the prince took her to his own home and
they lived happily ever after.”
REX BALL
Immediately after the bight parade
His Majesty Rex Vulcan II., accompanied
by the entire Genman court, princes and
(Continued on Second Page.)
NOW LOOKS IS IF GREECE
Will Gain |}ssession of the Cov
eted Prize.
1 —
MUSSIMIEN IN REVOLT
Because of activity on the Part of the Sultan's
Offit £ to Protect Their Women—
John Bulls Have Their Say.
London, March 2.—In the house of lords
today the Earl of Kimberly raised a de
bate upon the subject of Lord Salisbury’s
statement of Feb. 25, by asking questions
similar to those asked by Sir William
Harcourt in the* house of commons, ad
ding that in his opinion It would have
been wiser to have joined Crete with
Greece than having the island an autono
mist administration. Lord Salisbury re
plied that the proposals setting forth the
policy it was Intended to pursue in
Crete had been accepted by the powers,
though that part relating to the with
drawal of the Turkish troops had met
with some opposition. They must con
sider, he said, the interests of the Cretans
and take in account the question whether
they desired to become a p3rt of the
Hellenic kingdom. Moreover they must
sympathize with these wider views which
favored the preservation of the para
mount blessing.-' of European peace,
views that had influenced the nations in
deciding upon the granting of autonomy
to the island which would be effectual
and meant withdrawal of the arbitrary
power of tile sultan.
After remarks on the subject by other
peers the house adjourned.
TELEGRAMS FROM CANEA.
Tell of Massacres of Musselmans by
Christians—Powers Hold the Positions.
London, March 2.—In the house of com
mons today Mr. G. N. Curzon. under for
eign secretary, read telegrams received
from the British consul at Canea saying
that the Musselmans In the island of
Crete had declared that they would not
consent to a union of Crete with Greece
and placed high hopes in the action of
the great powers to prevent It. The ad
miral commanding the British war ships
In Cretan waters, .Mr. Curzon said, wired
that the flags which are hoisted at Se
llne, Kandame and Elkrltons show that
those towns are under the protection of
the powers. The most of these places,
however, are in great danger of being
massacred. The dispatch added that a
report was in circulation that Christians
were exterminating Moslems wherever
they went.
Sir William Harcourt raised a debate
upon the statement made by Lord Salis
bury, in view of the lords declaring the
policy which the government Intended to
pursue in regard to Crete Involving the
autonomy and the withdrawal of iTurk
lsh and Greek naval and military forces
and threatening to Impose force In the
event of the refusal of Greece or Turkey
to withdraw' their forces when required
to do so. He began by asking whether
the powers had assented to the proposals
and pursuing the subject, Inquired how'
far it was believed that the autonomy
of the island would rid the Island of turk
Ish rule which Is the cause of the pres
ent evil.
Mr. Curzon said that the powers would
not allow Crete to be taken out of their
hands as the arrival of Greek forces upon
the island had excited.the Christians and
infuriated the Moslem's.
A THREATENED REVOLT.
Mussulmans Talk of Proclaiming Alle
giance to Greece,
Athens. March 2.—The Greek vice-con
sul at Canea reports that the Mussul
mans there are threatening to proclaim
the union of Crete with Greece and to
murder the Beys because of the obstacles
which the latter have placed In the way
of their efforts to Induce the Greek vice
consul to save the women and children.
The foreign consuls have demanded
that war ships be sent from Suda Bay tc|
Selina at once.
THE REVOLT CONFIRMED.
Greek Consol Appealed to Because of the
Sultan's Inactivity.
Canea, March, 2.—A complete rupture
between the Beys and Musselmen has
been caused by the fall of Kandamo and
the litter have appealed to the Greek
ct^isul to save their compatriots from
massacre. The consul has promised to
do this provided the foreign minister
will provide the transportation necessary
to get the Moslems to Setino and that
Ishmael Pasha, their governor, will have
a written order to the Turks to leave
Kandamo under the guarantee of safety
given by the Greeks. It Is reported by
the governor! of Selino that a massacre
at Kandamo is imminent. The place is
within two hours of the sea.
SULLEIMAN BEY WOUNDED.
London. March 2.—A Hot occurred at
Canea today in which Sullelman Bey,
colonel of the Musselman gendarmes, was
fatally wounded by his own men. Sev
eral other Turkish officers were wounded.
The outbreak was caused by the gend
armes not receiving their pays. Notice
of the revolt was_ sent to the various
consulates and the'forelgn marines were
despatched to the scene. Several vol
leys were fired under the windows of
the barracks where the gendarmes were
quartered. This not having the desired
result, the marines fired upon the gend
armes, wounding several of them. The
rioters then began to yield. The dis
turbance caused a panic In Canea.
A LITTLE LATE.
Vienna, March 2.—The powers have
agreed to present their demand to Greece
In two notes. The first of these notes
will demand that Greece evacuate Crete
within six days and the second will con
vey an Intimation that the powers will re
sort to coercive measures If not •om
pll6d with. At the suggestion of Lord
Salisbury Turkey will be requested to
withdraw the Turkish troops in Crete to
the fortresses. The notes of the powers
will probably be presented to the Greek
and Turkish governments at Athens and
Constantinople today.
A MONITOR BALL.
Charleston, S. C., March 2.—The mon
itor Puritan .•■alls from here for New
York at 6 o’clock tomorrow morning.
This afternoon the officers of the three
warships, the Puritan, Amphitrlte and
Terror, gave the citizens a ‘‘monitor ball"
on board the Puritan. The ship was
qjaborate'ly decorated with flags of all
nations, a handsome lunch was served
artd there was a brilliant gathering of
gentlemen and ladies. An excellent or
chestra was in attendance and dancing
continued from 3 until 6 o’clock.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1897. NUMBER 39
ONLY A FEW SHORT HRS
And Congress Will Have Ceased
Operations.
LONG WORKING SESSIONS
Which Lasted Far Into the Night—Conference
Committee Reports Rushed Through
On Fast Mail Time.
"Washington, D. C.. March 3.—The busi
ness of the senate today was principally
In connection with conference reports.
The firs: to be presented was on the ap
propriation bill fort the District of Co
lumbia. It was a final report, however,
as the conferees had failed to report an
agreement on the series of senate amend
ments appropriating various sums fop
the charitable institutions of the city.
The partial report was agreed to and a
further conference was ordered.
The next conference committee report
was on the bill to amend the laws relat
ing to navigation. This is the bill for
•which Senator Frye, republican, of
Maine, was denounced on the Idea that
It restored flogging iru the American mer
chant marine. In his explanation today
he showed that the object of the bill was
to relieve sailors who were subjected to
assault or Imprisonment on the part of
a captain or cfficen from the onus of
proof that the assault was inspired by
"malice, hatred or revenge”—words used
In existing law. He also showed that
flogging In the American merchant ma
rine was prohibited by an act passed in
1850; so that those who made such n
charge against him were, he said, fools
or insane. The conference repent was
agreed to.
The conference report, final, was made
on the postofflee appropriation bill and
was agreed to without any question or
discussion. That on. the Indian appro
priation bill was only partial. A further
conference was ordered on these unad
justed matters.
The next conference report acted upon
was on the bill relating to copyrights
which iMr. Platt, republican, of Conncti
cut, stated had nothing to do with news
papers and only prohibited the false use
of the word "copyrighted." The report
was agreed to.
The conference report on the naval ap
propriation blll'gave rise to a long dis
cussion and was finally agreed to and
n new conference ordered. The contro
verted matters that were left open were
as to the increase of the navy by torpedo
Iboats, and the limitation of the price of
armor plate to $300 per ton.
In the interim between action on the
conference reports, house bills on the cal
endar unobjected to were taken up and
quite a number of them were passed.
At 6 o'clock the senate took a recess
until 8 p. m!
I NICHE SESSION.
The senate resumed Its session at 8
p. m., but in the absence of a quorum
there was no attempt to transact busi
ness. The senators who were present i
beguiled the time in chatting with each
other and the crowds In the galleries sat
waiting patiently for the proceedings to
begin. At 9 o'clock a quorum was ob
tained.
The vote was taken on the bill vetoed
by the president granting a pension to
Rachael Patton and resulted, yeas, 38;
nays, 10. So the bill was passed over
the president's veto.
Another vetoed pension bill—that
granting a p nsion to Caroline D. MowaM
—was passed over the president’s veto
by a vote of 39 to 7.
Mr. Cuilom announced that he would
forego any further attempt to pass the
anti-scalping bill, owing to the strain un
der which senators had been of late and
the certainty that the bill could not pass
without material amendment.
Mr. Quay, republican, of Pennsylvania,
having several times suggested the ab
sence of a quorum, thus necessitating a
roll call, and a quo-rum each time appear
ing, led Mr. Hoar, republican, of Massa
chusetts, to enter a vigorous protest
against his dilatory tactics.
It was never Intended, he said, that
the rules should be pu> Into the power of
one man to prevent eighty-nine men do
ing business-one man who in some con
ceivable case might be under the influ
ence of liquor: and I think then—" '
Mr. Quay- "I desire to say to the sen
ator from Massachusetts that if he in
tends to intimate that I am under the
influence of iiquor he—"
Mr. Hoar—"I make no such intima
tion, Mr. President.” %
Mr. Quay—“Is a lunatic or a liar and
I will not tolerate a suggestion of that
. sort from the senator from Massachu
setts or any one else. I am doing what
I am doing in the interest of my constit
uents."
Mr. Hear repeated his disclaimer of
any personal allusion to iMr. Quay, to
which the Pennsylvania senator replied
with a remark, cotto voce, that the mere
suggestion was a "filthy one.”
2:20 a. m.—The final conference re
ports on the Indian and the District of
Columbia appropriation bills were pre
sented and agreed to. By a vote of 44
to 6 the senate took up the bill for the
appointment of a labor commission. The
bill was discussed until after 2 o'clock
and was then; passed, with an amend
ment providing for a report by the com
mission within‘two years.
A resolution offered by Mr. Allison,
was agreed to, providing that the stand
ing and select committees of the senate
as now constituted, be continued until
their successors are selected.
A final agreement on the sundry civil
bill was reached by the conference and
agreed to in both houses.
The appropriation of $150,000 for a new
survey of the Niearauguan canal Is per
mitted to remain.
Senate amendments relative to the con
struction of public buildings at Charles
ton, S. C., $15,000 to complete approaches;
Norfolk, Va., extending the limit of the
building to $250,000 and appropriating
$100,000 are agreed to.
The river and harbor items in the bill
have been agreed to, the senat reeding
from their reduction of 25 pr cent, and
agreeing to a reduction of 12% per cent,
from the amount appropriated by the
house.
IN THK HOUSK.
The crush of visitors to the Inaugural
ceremonies In the galleries and corri
dors and the nervous haste and energy
displayed by the leaders of the house in
the management of the big appropria
tion bills still remaining undisposed of,
spoke even more plainly than words to
day of the near approach of the close
of this congress and the administration.
All the proceedings today were In con
tihuation of the legislative day of Tues
day, and It is probable that no adjoum
. ment will be taken until adjournment
sine die Is announced tomorrow at noon
When the house te-assembled at 10:30
Mr. Sherman, (rep of New York), called
up the conference report on the Indian
appropriation bill, which the senate re
jected yesterday. A like fate awaited it
in the house, the senate amendment
transferring the Osage Indian lands in
Oklahoma to the It Han Territory, pro
voking the greatest discussion Later in
the daj a partial repoit showing that the
senate had receded from that amend
ment was agreed to When the houFe
took a recess at 6:40 o'clock, it was under
stood that the conferees had agreed as
to all the amendments except two.
A hotlyContested fight was made to se
cure concurrence in the senate amend
ment in the general deficiency bill pro
viding for the payment of Bowman act
claims for supplies furnished the Union
army adjudicated by the court of claims,
but it failed. It was led by Messrs. Ma
hon, (rep. of . Pennsylvania); Richard
son, (dem. of Tennessee), and Welling
ton, (rep. of Maryland). By more than
two-thirds the house voted to non-con
cur In all the senate amendments and
threw them into conference. In his re
marks tlpon this proposition, Mr. Can
non, (rep. of Illinois), chairman of the
committee on appropriations, stated that
the house being within less than twenty
four hours of, final adjournment, seven
of the appropriation bills were far from
being in stiape to go to the president for
his approval—the Indian. District of
Columbia, naval, postofflee, fortifica
tions, sundry civil and general deficiency.
In the course of the afternoon, how
ever, Aral agreement on the postoffice
and fortification bills were reported and
approved by the house; also progress on
tire District of Columbia bill.
In accordance with the anrang ment
made yesterday the house considered
President Cleveland's veto of the Immi
gration bill and by a vote of 193 to 37
decided to pass th? bill, th- objections of
the president notwithstanding.
Final concurrence was had upon the
bills to amend the tariff law so os to au
thorize the sale to the high st blddeb
of forfeit smoking opium, to amend the
navigation laws, to revise and amend
the patent laws.
A conference repont on the naval ap
propriation bill was presented r com
mending non-concurrence with the senate
on several amendments, chief among
which was that reducing the price of
armor plate from $400 to $300 per ton. -
Mr. Hopkins, of Illinois, moved that
the house concur in the senate amend
meut as to armor plate. Hopkins advo
cated his motion and Mr. Boutelle and
Mr. Cummings antagonized it. The at
tendance upon the house was small and
the vote on Hopkins’ motion was. Ayes,
60. nays, 42. The point of no quorum was
made by Mr Robinson (rep., Penn.), but
after some consultation It was agr od to
take a vote at 9 o’clock.
At 6:40 the house took a reoess until
8 o’clock.
NIGHT SESSION.
The house reassembled at 8:30 o'clock
In the pr senee of galleries crowded al
most to suffocation with throngs of peo
ple curious or interested In the proceed
ings of the closing hours of congress. The
crowds In the galleri s added materially
to the confusion prevalent in the cham
ber which necessitated frequent requests
for order. Speaker Reed was forced In
his efforts to secure quklt and obedience
to the rules to request the sergeant-at-.
arms to enforce order. The house then,
by a vote of 131 to 62 concurred In the
senate amendment to the naval appro
priation bill limiting the average price
of armor plate to $300 a ton. Upon the
announcement of this vote Mr. Sou telle,
chairman of the committee on naval af
fairs, stated that for himself hr did not
feel justified In further delaying the con
gress by insisting on a disagreement to
the remaining amendmen ts of the senate,
those providing for the construction of
three torpedo boats and a small practice
vessel for the naval academy. He then
fore moved a reconsideration of the vote
by which the house insisted on its disa
greement arid asked a further conference.
This was agreed to. He then moved that
the house concur in the senate amend
ments and this was agreed to. And thus
unexpectedly the naval appropriation bill
was completed, ready for the approval
of the president.
The third conference report on the In
dian appropriation bill was presented.
The conferees had reached an agreement
on all items of differences but two—the
paragraph authorizing the use of secta
rian contract Indian schools to the ex
tent of 40 per cent, of the appropriations
for 1895, and the proposition to repeal th?
law giving preference to certain settlers
Hpon mineral lands. The report was
agreed to. To test the serse of the
house on the sectarian school question
Mr. Sherman moved that the house con
cur In the amendment of the senate and
this was agreed to.
The same action was taken In respect
of the mineral lands amendment and this
disposed of th- Indian appropriation bill.
Mr Grout (rep., Vt.) reported the final
agreement of the conferees on the Dis
trict of Columbia appropriation bill. The
house conferees recommend-:d that the
house agree to the senate amendments
making direct appropriations to charita
ble and benevolent institutions In the
district and putting off for another year
the execution of the declaration of con
gress in th? bill for the present year 'that
no funds shall be voted to sectarian in
stitutions. The report was agieed to
which ended consideration of the bill.
This disposed of all th- appropriation
hills except the sundry civil and the gen
eral deficiency; and the house at 10:20
took a recess uri'Jl 11 o’clock to await the
action of the confere s on these bills.
During the recess of the house which
ended a't 11 o’clock, some fifty members
led by Representative Henderson, of
Iow>a, entertained the galleries by sing
ing patriotic songs and popular airs.
The singers were grouped In front of the
speaker’s desk and at the conclusion of
each selection they were loudly ap
plauded. %
“Down In Dixie” was greeted with
cheers and “Marching Through Georgia”
was cheered to the echo.
Prominent' among the singers were
members of the New York delegation
Messrs. Towns, of Minnesota; Danforth,
of Colorado; Howard, of Alabama, and
Mercer, of Nebraska
Conference reports were agreed to on
bills for the better protection of copy
rights—the senate provision that It shall
nett apply to matter previously'Imported
being adopted—and granting right of
way through Oklahoma to the Galveston
and Great Northern Railway company.
MACHINE WORKS BURNED.
Columbia, S. C.. March 3—A special
from Spartanburg, S. C., to the State
Says:
The most disastrous Are since the burn
ing of Converse college in 1391, occurred
here early this morning. The great Spar
tanburg machine works was totally de
stroyed, not one dollar's worth of ma
chinery having been saved. The blaze
was discovered by the night watchman
about 2 o’clock, but the building was al
ino-U consumed before the Are depart
ment arrived. The machine works was
one of the largest concerns in this part of
the country and its destruction will be
a heavy blow to Spartanburg. The loss
is at. least $50,000, with only $10,000 in
surance
THE GRANT WAS REGULAR
Washington, March 3.—The report of
| the senate public lands committee on in
vestigation into the Perrin,? grant in
Florida, declares the committee found
nothing irregular or unusual in the
granrtng of a patent for the lands or any
[ circumstance* connected therewith. This
i* the ease In which it was milsged a pat
ent was issued because of the relation
| ship of President Cleveland to the pat
■ cruet. i
M'KINLEY IN FINE HEftLTH
Made a Pop Call at the White
House.
READY FOR THE MORROW
Cornelius N. Bliss, of New York, Goes Into the
Cabinet—Men Who Will Handle
Folios of State.
Washington, March 3.—The president
elect is In an. excellent state of health
this morning. He rested well and was
exceedingly pleased with the quiet dinner
and evening which he passed at the
white house with President and Mrs.
Cleveland. At 10:30 Gov. Lowndes, of
Maryland, accompanied by his staff, call
ed and were received In the hotel parlor.
Late this afternoon there were a number
of conferences at the rooms of the presi
dent-elect on the subject of the oablnet.
It was 11 o'clock when the president-elect
drove to the white house in the rain to
make the customary formal call. Quite a
crowd had collected near the portico In
anticipation of his arrival and hats were
removed with a slight cheer when he
alighted, followed by Secretary J. Addi
son Porter, and Chairman Bell, of the in
auguration committee. Mr. McKinley ac
knowledged the ovation by smilingly
lifting his hat and nodding to the assem
blage and then walked quietly Into the
main corridors, whence he was at once
ushered, through the great stained glass
screen, to the tfue room, where President
Cleveland and Secretary Thurber stood
expectingly. The band grasp of tne pres
ident wao» noticeably cordial In greet.ng
his successor, and while the two secre
taries and Mr. Bell drew aside President
Cleveland asked interestingly regarding
Mis. McKinley’s health, and assured Mr.
McKinley that he would be abCe to take
part In tomorrow’s physical ordeal In
spite of the pain he was suffering. The
Interview was brief, for the president
elect had remained at the white house
last night until 10 o'clock discussing the
inauguration arrangements and the af
fairs of state which are left over to worry
him, and besides, the visit was purely
one of courtesy in acknowledgment of
last night’s hospitality.
Within two minutes of his entry the
president-elect and those accompanying
him drove away.
President Cleveland and Secretary
Thurber returned the call at noon.
The throng of callers at the white house
shows no lessening. Among them today
were Gapt. Robley Evans, who Is per
fecting arrangements for a ducking ex
pedition on a light house tender, to be
gin Thursday night. Justice White, of
the supreme court. Commissioner of Pa
tents Seymour, Marshal Wilson, Joslab
Patterson, of Tennessee; Gen. John M.
Wilson, chief of engineers, and a host of
congressmen wanted pet measures placed
on top of the heap on the president’s
desk and all went away satisfied that this
would be done.
In spite of the rain Inauguration
►crowds came in droves and tracked niltd
over the rich carpels of the east room
which was the only apartment open to
the public.
It Is announced that this morning Cor
nelius N. Bliss agreed to reconsider his
determination to remain in private life,
and consented to enter Mr. McKinley’s
cabinet as the representative of New
York state. It Is understood that the po
sition to which he is for the present as
signed Is the vacant post of secretary of
the Interior and that the formal tender
of a cabinet position will be made to him
this afternoon by Mr. McKinley. But
Mr. Bliss' New York friends want him to
be secretary of the navy, and he wduld
prefer that portfolio himself, for the
reason that he Is not a lawyer and the
tradition is that the post of secretary of
the Interior shall be occupied by a law
yer.
Gov. John D. Long, who has been slat
ed for secretary of the navy and who
did not expect to reach here until some
time tomorrow, has been communicated
with by telegraph and asked to come
to Washington Immediately. It Is ap
parently the intention to ask him to be
come secretary of the Interior so as to
leave the navy portfolio open for Mr.
Bliss.
Prominent republicans who have heard
the statement that Mr. Bliss Is to be a,
member of the cabinet express great sat
isfaction at this solution of the New York
problem. Mr. Bliss Is acceptable to all
factions. If the arrangement as above
outlined Is carried out the new cabinet
will be as follows:
Secretary of state—John Sherman, of
Ohio.
Secretary of the treasury—Lyman J.
6age, of Illinois.
Secretary of war—Russell A. Alger^ of
Michigan.
Attorney general—Joseph McKenna, of
California.
Postmaster general—James A. Gary, of
Maryland.
Secretary of the navy—Cornelius N.
Bliss, of New York.
Secretary of agriculture—James Wil
son, of Iowa.
Secretary of interior—John D. Long, of
Massachusetts.
CHARLES P. JACKSON
- ;
RE-ELECTED SECRETARY OF ALA
BAMA RAILROAD COMMISSION
Gubernatorial Appointments of C ty
Tax Commissioners For Severs
Counties.
_•
Montgomery, Ala., March 3.—(Special.)
—The Alabama railroad commisslol to
day unanimously re-elected Mr. Charles
P. Jackson as secretary of the commis
sion for the ensuing term.
The appointment of the following coun
ty tax commissioners was announced
today:
Milo Moody, for Jackson county.
William Reeder, for Lauderdale county.
E. M. Lawrence, for Colbert county.
OUSTED THE PREACHER.
New York, 'March 3.—The Rev.' Dr. D.
C. Pomer, who for several months has re
sisted all attempts of the Baptist Mission
society and John D, Rockefeller to eject
him from1 the parsonage at 162 Second
avenue, was put out by force this after
noon. Dr. Pomer was caught off his
guard by the men who have been watch
ing the house and pulled out of the door,
which was thfih locked against htm.
— DURANT’S HARD LUCK.
San Francisco, Cal., March 3.—The su
preme court this afternoon filed a decis
ion denying a new* trial to Theo Durant,
the murderer of Blanche Lament and
Minnie Willlama.
TIME FOH CHANGE HAS COME
Says Stuyvesant Fish, an Author
ity on Banking, ' ,
SOME OF THE HARDSHIPS
Now Imposed Upon National and Private Banks
Which Should Be Taken Off
by Congress.
—
Baltimore. March 3.—Stuyvesant Fish,
president of the Illinois Central railroad
and vice-president of the Park National
bank, of New York, one of the largest
banks in the United States, has given the
Manufacturers’ Record of this week a
comprehensive Interview upon the need
of better banking laws, and among other
things, says:
The difficulties -which solvent borrow
ers encounter in the smaller towns of
the west and south, the great discrepancy
between the rates of Interest charged
them when loans are at all obtainable,
and those prevailing at the same time in
the money centers, taken with the sud
den and tremendous variations in the
rates for money in New York during the
post eighteen months, demonstrate that
our banking system Is neither national
nor national.
The laws governing national banks
originally show on their title that they
were intended to provide a currency se
cured by a pledge of government bonds
and were framed in order to force the
old state banks, which had both capital
and credit, to support the government’s
finances. As a war measure this may
have been wise and defensible, although
it was cruel and unjust to the merchants
to whom those banks owed a first duty.
As a scheme of banking for a widely and
scattered commercial point the laws are
unwise, in that they make no use of the
element of credit which necessarily is
the bases of banking. The law requiring
a national bank to lock up $120,000 in
i government bonds In order to obtain the
privilege of issuing $90,000 of circulating
notes first diminished the available funds
of every small bank by one-quarter or
more, and then teaches those operating
under it, especially men new to the busi
ness to favor loans by the banks against
a pledge of securities rather than on legi
timate paper given by the buyer to the
seller In a commercial transaction and
indorsed by the fatter. Loans on hypoth
ecation generally and naturally drift,
through renewals, into making the bank
a special partner In commercial, manu
facturing and agricultural enterprises,
If not also In street’oar and other railroad
operations.
That a bank must at all times keep In
reserve a certain portion of Us depositors’
money is, of course, necessary. But the
provision of the law that part of the re
serve may be deposited with other banks
In distant cities, often places the reserve
out of the control of the bank when Its
needs are greatest. The law also creates
congestion in the mowy-centers. It alro
1 tends to learve the country banks at all
liilnics without sufficient cash to adequate
ly care for the legitimate demands of i
their commercial depositors.
The further provision that when the
reserved a hank falls below the per cent,
named fn the law the directors shall not
make new loans or discounts. If strictty
and invariably followed would, in every
crisis, lead to the bankruptcy of all of
the banks’ commercial depositors and
necessarily to that of the bank Itselt
Figures are preoented by Mr. Fish to
show by the diminishing capital of New
York banks that the business there had
not been particularly attractive. He
sketches a comparison of the hanking
system of the United States, England
and France in which were revealed the
advantages of the latter two, and said:
“Why. then, this difference between our
national banks and those of other coun
tries? Chiefly because, after thirty-four
years of .experience, congress still insists
upon keeping on the national banks the
bonds and fetters which It was through
out necessary to put on entirely new and
utterly untried institutions with small
capital, at the time when the govern
ment’s credit was none of the best, and
the financial outcome of the war purely
problematic.”
Mr. Fish suggest? as remedies for ex-.
Istlng evils a law’ to establish a safe sys
tem of banking on credit and not on
hypothecation, that the necessary cost
of banking be made as small as possible
consistent with safety, by establishing
branch banks and amalgamating the vast
number of small concerns with limited
means, and therefore, limited and un
known credit, Into large Institutions, that
banks be divided Into two claeses, those
of deposit and discount only and those
of deposit, discount and issue, that the
latter be given the privilege of issuing
circulating notes to an amount equal to
its capital and surplus, less the book
value of its land and other permanent
Investments, and that the former be re
lieved of the requirement of holding 26
per cent, or any other fixed per cent, of
their deposits in cash.
"The Interest,” continued Mr. ElslC
“which I have in one of the largest of the
New York banks, much of whose business
is with other national banks in every
state in the union, would preclude me,
if other reasons were wanting, from ad
vocating an unsafe or even doubtful
method of banking. What I have said,
or may say, represents only my own In
dividual opinions as a citizen having, or
rather representing varied Interests In
many states In the west and south. Con
cerning those opinions, or their expres
sion, I have had no manner of consulta
tion or conference with my colleagues
1n the bank. Indeed, It is manifest that
the changes above advocated are not in
Its interest, except In so far as evil can
[ continue to happen to this country with
out affecting bo large an Institution; so
also of the good to the whole country,
which will sunely follow the release of
the national banks from the swaddling
clothes In which congress put them In
1863.”
tMr. Flsih notes the mighty changes that
have occurred1 in the country since the
war as indicating the necessity for a
change, and In conclusion said;
"As far as the mere safe-keeping of
the money of the depositors, and its
prompt payment on demand Is concerned,
the national banking system has worked
better than any system of which the
country at large has had experience.
"As a system of banking fon those en
gaged In commerce, who base their oper
ations on securing from their banks lines
of discount commensurate with their
average deposits, the system has .failed
whenever severely tested.
“It failed In 186!)—Black Friday--it
failed In 1SS4. the Marine bonk and the
Meropolltan bank going under in New
York; it failed again in 1890 on the Ba rings
suspension in London; again In 1893 and
again In 1896.
"I do «sy that the national banks
or any great number of them failed, hut.
I do say that the reliance of merchants
on their banks failed them at each of
those times, and that the fault lies In
the provision? of the national bank act
as now in force. The time for a chance
has come.”
GROVER AGAIN UNWELL.
Transacted Business of State in His Bed
Room—Will Come South.
Washington, March 3.—The president
was confined to his bed-room again to
night and there all the official business
of the last evening in the house was
transacted. Secretary Lamont and At
torney General Harmon joined him
about 9 o’clock and assisted him in an
advisory way about the flood of meas
ures which were released from the con
gressional gauntlet in the last hours of
the session. The president's confinement
to his bed-room, it is explained, is not
due to any alarming condition of health,
but to secure such comfort as may ac
company, the excruciating rheumatic at
tack from which he has suffered the past
few days and to reserve his strength for
the long physical ordeal of tomorrow.
Mrs. Cleveland, accompanied by Sec
Yetary Thurber, will leave Washington
tomorrow afternoon for Princeton, on a
special car attached to the 3:15 train over
the Pennsylvania load. For two hours
previous to that time Mrs. Cleveland will
be the guest of Mrs. Lamont and pay
a few parting calls on ladles of the fami
lies of other cabinet officers. It is au
thoritatively announced that Mr. Cleve
land will, in all probability, not go to
Princeton for some time, but will leave
Washington tomoriow afternoon for th«
south in search of rest and restored
health.
WEARIED OP% HER LOVER
She Cast Him 'Off, Whereupon He Shot
Her and Then Killed Himself.
New Orleans. La., March 3.—Tonight
shortly afterr 7 o’clock E. W. Congdion,
formerly of Homer, La., fired three shots
In an effort to kill a woman who calls
herself Mary Congdon, and believing he
had killed her the desperate man turned
the pistol on his own head and blew his
brains out. The tragedy occurred on
Canal and Dauph'ine streets, a locality
which Is always crowded with people.
The wildest excitement was caused by
the shooting.
A passer-by, a woman, was slightly
wounded by one of the stray bullets In
tended for Mary Congdon. The latter
was hit once only In the side of the head',
but the bullet failed to penetrate, merely
imbedding itself Just above the ear.
Congdon’s body was taken to the
morgue and Mary Congdon was taken to
the hospital. She 1s not dangerously
wounded.
Congdon has been a clerk at the cus
tom house, but lest his position and has
been doing nothing for a long time.
Meanwhile, the woman, who was one of
the scarlet sisterhood, has been support
ing him, but at length wearied of the
burden. They met casually tonight, a
quarrel ensued and Congdon shortly drew
his pistol and began to Shoo>t.
REMOVED FROM OFFICE.
Was Chief of Stamp Division Munce—
Tho Coleman Trouble Caused It.
Washington, March 3.—Postmaster
General Wilson today suspended Chief
of Stamp Division Munce, of the pnet
offlce do-partme.rl:, on the charge of taking
without authority somer sets of stamps
which later turned up in the possession
of Hamilton J. Coleman, a clerk In the
general land office, who sold them In New
York and is now under ball Cor that of
fense.
The stamps sold by Coleman In N-w
York were seat to Munce by the Ameri
can Bank Note company to be forwarded
to the bureau of engraving, and printed
as copies when the bureau first began
to print the United States stamps. They
were afterwards returned to Munce.
MICHIGAN GOLD DEMOCRATS.
Grand Rapids, Mich., 'March 3.—The
gold democratic party of -Michigan held
a state convention this afternoon and
nominated the following ticket:
Justice of Supremo Court—Dan F.
Foote, of -Saginaw.
Regents of the University—Levi L.
Barbour, Detroit, and Edwin F. Sweet,
of Grand Rapids.
Resolutions're-afflrming the Indianap
olis platform were adopted.
OFF FOR WASHINGTON.
Fort Monroe, Vu., March 3.—Admiral
Bun-ce h-as chartered the steamer Norfolk
upon which the band of the flagship,
some forty officers and about 600 blue
jackets left for Washington tonight to
participate in the Inaugural parade. The
army jeontlngenk comprising the post
band and four batteries of artillery In
command of Col. Hasbrouck, left by train
at 9 p. m. over the Chesapeake and Ohio
road.
POWER HOUSE BURNED;
Serious Accident in Which An Ugly Blaze
Originated—Two Men Run Over and
Killed by a Fire Engine.
—
Philadelphia, March 3.—The power
house at Thirteenth and Mt. Vernon
streets, from which the Union Traction
company operated a half dozen of Its
lines of trolley cars, was destroyed by fire
this afternoon. The loss is about $500,000, ,
principally on the valuable machinery in
the building. The loss is covered by in
surance. The power house was a large
brick structure covering a third of the
block ar.J contained eight dynamos and
other valuable machinery. About 6
o’clock this afternoon some of the em
ployes were swinging a big crane around
that was in the building and the iron
chain hanging from the arm struck a gen
erator. The blow smashed the generator
and a violent explosion' followed. The
breaking of the generator blew out every
circuit and wrecked all the dynamos
which were running.
Following the explosion fire broke out
and gutted the building and destroyed
the eight dynamos or rendered them
useless and irretrievably damaged the
other machinery in the building. The
dynamos were the property of the West
Inghouse Electric company. The Trac
tion company claimed that they were not
working properly! and had therefore
never accepted them and the Westing
house company were running them at
their own expense pending some divis
ion in the matter. About half the lo.-s,
therefore, will fall upon the Weatlng
house company.
During the progress of the fire Augusta
Binder and another-well dressed, good
looking young man, were run over by a
fire engine and killed. Both men were
looking at the fire at the time they were
run down. Several other persons were
more or less injured by other accidents.
The fire occurred at an hour at which
thousands of people were returning home
from work and as the oars on Fifteenth
street were brought to a complete stand
still much Inconvenience to the publlo
resulted. The destruction of the power
house will seriously cripple the surface
transit facilities of the city for some time, I
as the Traction company wlil be com
pelled to reduce the number of their oars
on most of the streets until they can nip
ply the powers lost by the burning of the
house at Mt. Vernon street.
ENGLAND STORM SWEPT
Alarming Amount of Wreckage
Among the Shipping,
TELEG&f>H WIRES DOWN
f -
. ^ i *,
For H ®Js of Miles and Details of the
^jrm Meagre—The Worst Is
Yet to Come.
m, March 3.—A terrific southwest
ga,' £! prevailing along the coast and
in'iM int-riorof England. A rumbtr of
vessels have been wrecked off Yar
mouth and 'Isolated cases of drowning are
reported. Heavy seas have swept over
'the docks of channd packets, all of which
are greatly overdue in arriving at their
destinations.
The gales have boon accompanied by
heavy rains and Immense tracts of land
in Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire are in
undated.
Details of the damage done by the gale'
continue to come in, but owing to the
general prostration of the wires .hey are
still meagre.
A train running between Brecon and
Merthyr-Tydvll, Wales, was overturned
by the force of the wind, but no loss of
lift' Is reported. Along the coast and in
the interior as well, milts upon miles of
telegraph poles have been broken off or
liberally torn out of the ground. Wey
mouth harbor Is filled with wreckage of
all kinds and all manner of craft in the
harbor is adrift. The extensive harbor
works which were In course of eontsruc
tion at Hastings have been demolished
ar.d a great quantity of valuable machin
ery and material curried away. Scores
of fishing boats have foundered at and
off Lowest1 Hi, but In some cat s nobody
was on board and in others the crews
wer? rescued by hard work on the part
of the life-savers.
The pier at Fremington has been
crushed to pieces by th ■ tremendous seas
and a. large number of wrecks occurred
on the Devonshire coast.
A FRUITLESS SEARCH.
New Fork, March 3.—The revenue cut
ter Manhattan, which left her pier last
night on orders from Washington fora
the purpose of overtaking a Cuban fili
bustering steamer whi'eh was reported to
be off Bamogat, N. J., returned to port
this evening after a fruitless search for
the vessel. The 'Manhattan proceeded as
far as Bar n ago t, but did not sight the
suspicious steamer, which Is supposed to
be the Laurad'a. The Manhattan while
on the return trip blew out two of her
boiler tubes and had to be towed to her
pier. Nobody was hurt aB a result of
the accident.
CAUGHT IN CHICAGO,
John Corwine. the Absconding Paymas
ter o£ the Navy, Arrested—Confesses
His Shortage. _ ,
—
Chicago, March 3.—John Corwine, the
absconding paymaster of the United
States navy who was stationed at New
port, R. I„ was arrested in Chicago this
afternoon. He arrived here this morn
ing from New York city. Shortly before
3 o’clock Inspector Fitzpatrick received
a message over the long distance tele
phone from H. O. Reed, chief of police of
Newport, that Corwine was in Chicago
and that h ■ would register at the Palmer
house under the name of J. Reeves. De
tectives were immediately sent to the
hotel and arrested Corwine as he was
writing his name on the register. Cor
wine made no effort to conceal his Iden
tity and readily confessed to all the
charges made against him by the navy
department. The police recovered $2,
950 in his possession.
Corwine decamped from Newport last
Monday after having cashed a check for
$5,000. An Investigation of his accounts
It Is all ged revealed that he was between
$5,0(10 and $10,000 short, exclusive of the
amount of the check. Monday he was
called upon to explain the deficit. In
stead, however, Corwine went to the
First National bank, the government de
pository at Newport, and drew a check
on tlie Union National bank of Boston
for $5,000 and an hour lat r he had left
the city.
The police learned that he had pur
chased a ticket to New York and detec
tives were sent 'to starch for him. He
succeeded, however, in eluding arrest and
today it was learned xhe.it he had come to
Chicago. His wife lives in Brooklyn
and according to h!s own story, he met
h-r there a.nd gave her $2,000 of the
money he had secured at the Newport
bank. The remainder, lacking $50, was
found In his possession today.
While being questioned by Inspector
Fitzpatrick he answered freely nearly all
the queekions put to him. H denied
that he had spent any money in gam
bling or high living, but admitted that
he was several thousand dollars short in
his accounts. He said that while he
had not us d this money for himself, he
was responsible for it. He refused to
say what was done with the cash.
A NAVAL SCANDAL. }
Young Paymatper Leaves the Service Af
ter an Unbecoming Escapade.
Washington, March 3.—Another naval
paymaster has left his post of duty with
out leave, the officer involved in this
case being William P. Brawley, of the
Yantlc, of the South Atlantic squadron,
stationed at Montevideo. The cable
brings meagre details of his escapade,
which Is not conn-.ctod with pecuniary
maitt rs, but Involves the wife of a broth
er officer. Brawley Is a young South
Carolinian, son of an ex-congressman, ap
pointed to the service May 23, 1895. A
week ago he cabled his resignation to
Secretary Herbert, urging it? immediate
aoc°ptanee and the following day he dis
appeared from Montevideo, either by
land for Patagonia or by sea to Cape of
Good Hope. The navy department
promptly asked Capt. Yates Sterling
about the cause of the resignation and
today a reply came telling of Brawley s
flight after “scandalous conduct affect
ing a brother officer's honor" and advis
ing the acceptance of the resignation,
his accounts being all right ami there
being mo contingency by which govern
ment loss could result from getting rid
of him
SHERM AN HAS RESIGNED
■Washington, D. C., March 3 —Governor
Bushnell, of Ohio, at 1 o'clock this after
noon received the resignation of Senator
John Sheitmam to take effect Friday,
March 5. On that day Mark Hanna will
be sworn In as successor to Senator Sher
man.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1897. NUMBER 40
M'KINLEY JS_ PRESIDENT
Imposing Was the Inauguration
Ceremony
AND GREAT THE DISPLAY
The Nstional Capital the Scene of a Monster
Gathering
FROM ALL SECTIONS OF THE UNION
Full Text of the Inaugural Address, the
.Last Words ol Vice-President Ste
venson and the First of Vioe
President Hobart.
Washington, March 4.—William Mc
Kinley, of Ohio, was today installed as
president of the United States for the
term of four years continuing until the
4th of MajSh, 1901, and Grover Cleveland
for the second time passed from the ex
ercise of the high office of president and
re-entered private life.
In his capacity as ex-president he has
but one living contemporary, his imme
diate predecessor, Benjamin Hanlson.
All the others who within the last thirty
years, by election or succession, have
presided over the destines of the great
American republic—Lincoln, Johnson,
Grant, Hayes, Garfield and Arthur—have
joined the silent majority.
Incidental to the actual assuming of
the office of president, and slightly pre
ceding it in point of time, Garret A. Ho
bart, of New Jersey (a gentleman not
heretofore prominent in national politics),
(took, the oath of office as vice-president
at the United States and was Installed as
ex-offlelo presiding officer of the senate.
SCENES OF THE DAY..
The proceedings of the day were char
acterized by all the imposing spectacular
effects and demonstrations of popular in
terest which have become a growing
feature of Inaugural ceremonies, as the
nation has advanced in population and
wealth. Between 40,000 and 50,000 men
formed in procession, partly military,
partly civic, and escorted the president
end the president-elect to and from the
capltol. At least 20,000 people witnessed
the administration of the oath of office
on the eastern portico of the capltol, and
listened or attempted to listen to the de
livery of the new president’s brief In
augural address; and at night a gorgeous
state ball, at which the president and
vice-president will be present, will close
the proceedings.
CLEVELAND AND M’KINLEY.
The graceful interchange of courtesies
between the outgoing and Incoming offi
cials, which has only twice been inter
mitted—once when bluff John Adams
packed his gripsack and slipped out at
the white house at daylight on the 4th
of March to avoid shaking hands with
his hated federalist successor, the illus
trious Jefferson, and once within living
memory when Gen. Grant, because of
his strained personal relations with An
drew Johnson, drove in his buggy’ from
the old war department to the capltol,
accompanied only by Gen. John A. Raw
lins, his chief of staff—were on this oc
casion exercised to the full extent. Mr.
Cleveland and Mr. McKinley rode side by1
side to and from the oapltol. They had
dined together at the white house the day
before, and they lunched in each other’s
company on the day tn which they trans
ferred the government, of this great na
tion the one to the other.
An addittar.al air of cordallty was In
fused into the proceedings by the simi
larity between the views entertained by
the retiring president and his cabinet on
financial questions, and those upon which
the successful candidate of the republi
can party was elected.
Mr. Cleveland, in truth, felt more grati
fication probably In installing at the capi
tol as his successor the leader of an op
posing political party than he would have
had In escorting under like circumstances
the leader chosen by his own political
associates as their candidate for the
presidency. This innovation on the usu
ally closely drawn partisan lines of
American politics gave added piquancy
to the proceedings.
UNFAVORABLE CONDITIONS.
Repeated but unsuccessful efforts have
been made of late years to change by
legislation the date of the Inauguration
ceremony to a later period of the sea
son, so as to avoid the uncertainties and
frequent inclemencies of climate which
prevail In Washington in the early part
of March. In 1863, when President Grant
was inducted Into office for the first time,
the weather was so bitterly cold that the
soldiers froze at their posts, and many
of the participants in the proceedings
subsequently died from the direct ef
fects of the exposure to which they were
subjected.
Garfield’s Inauguration was ushered In
■by an early morning snow storm, which,
however, melted rapidly In the subse
quent sunshine. Benjamin Harrison rode
to the White House in a cold and drench
ing rain, worse to endure than snow, and
delivered his address bareheaded in the
open atr at the peril of his life to an au
dience hidden under a forest of um
brellas.
For eighty years, ever since 1817, when
James Monroe, the fifth president of the
United States, Initiated the practice, It
has been the almost unbroken custom
for the chief justice of the United States
to administer the oath of office to bha
president-elect In the open air, the high
participating officials standing on a plat
form erected In front of the eastern por
tion of the capitol. This rule has. occa
sionally been deviated from when a pres
ident was re-elected to succeed himself,
or when a vice-president has succeeded
to the office through the death of the
president. There was one other notable
rxception in the case of President Hayes.
His inauguration day falling on Sunday,
and there being still unsettled questions
as to the validity of his title, he, out of
abundant precaution, took the oath of
office in the White House on the day be
fore he delivered his Inaugural address.
These established A1 Fresco features of
the proceedings necessarily caused those
entrusted with the arrangements of to
day’s ceremonies to look forward with
some anxiety to the weather conditions.
THE WEATHER.
Severe blizzards in the extreme west
in the latter part of February had made
their effect felt to 'some extent in the
national capital, and had caused alarm
for inauguration day. But after* slight
snow flurry on Friday last, and a freez
ing smell for several days following, the
weather eiinteliipurftmioUfily with Maj.
McKinley’s arrival in Washington took
on the pleasantest of spring aspects, the
thermometer ranging between 6s) and 70
degrees and balmy sunshine bathing the
Iftreets and lighting up the gaily-colored
decorations with which every house on
the pjresldent-elect's line of progress was
emblazoned. The rain of yesterday was
followed by a perfect march day, clear,
cool, Invigorating with bright sunshine
and fleecy clouds to enliven the scene.
THE DECORATIONS.
The decorations of the city were ex
ceedingly effective, with but one single
exception. That was the treasury de
partment, the majestic lines of which
were disfigured In violation of all rules
of taste. Each of the graceful fluted
columns of the eastern facade on Fif
teenth street was partially swaddled in
striped pantalettes, falling short of tho
pediments, exactly after the fashion of
“Uncle Sam’s” trousers as depicted in
the comic papers, and over the entabla
tures at each end, and ulso over the main
eastern entrance, the shield and eagle of
th# United States were daubed upon a
hideous yellow background, the whole
forming a tawdry combination which a
third-rate circus would have scorned to
display.
Everywhere else, however, the scenic
efTect was fine, and even the bad taste
displayed in the treasury drapings was
in part obliterated by the animated con
course of employes and their families
and guests who occupied the temporary
seats which piled tier above tier, reached
half way up the side of the building and
entirely covered the garden at the south
end, looking down Pennsylvania avenue.
The pavilion in front of the white house,
from which President McKinley reviewed
the returning procession, was a thing of
beauty—an architectural creation of
white and gold, strongly resembling in its
apparently substantial pillars and its
general outlines the portico of historic
Arlington, and conveying no Impression
that It was simply a flimsy structure
of wood erected for a day.
SCENE OF GRANDEUR.
No grander theater for such a pageant
could well be found. Pennsylvania ave
nue, 125 feet from curb to curb, along
which the procession passed from the
white house to the eapltol, presents an
uninterrupted vista of over a mile, com
mencing with the massive Grecian fa
cade of the treasury department, which
intersects the view' at one end, and termi
nating In the beautiful white marble
dome crowned eapltol at the other end,
with the needle-like shaft of the Wash
ington monument standing sentinel
guard on the right hand, towering 555 feet
upwards to the clouds.
On all the little parkings and govern
ment reservations formed by the different
angles of the Intersecting streets and the
radiating avenues, gaily decorated stands
had been erected, capable of seating at
least 80,000 people, and^hese were densely
packed with spectators, one row above
the other like the towers on a Grecian
trireme.
THE CROWDS.
The entire route from the white house
to the capitol was banked with hoarsely
shouting-, enthusiastic spectators. All
street car traffic was, of course, suspend
ed along the route of the procession; the
sidewalks were roped off and were so
crowded with people that locomotion was
impracticable. Mounted police prevented
any one from attempting to break
through the “trocha”
It seemed as if Washington’s normal
population of 200,000 had been swelled by
more than an equal number of visiting
strangers, and that d.!l were out to see
the sights. Every building on the line
of march was draped in bunting of the
national colors, and every window and
point of vantage was occupied. The
beautiful stars and stripes were every
where seen, with other appropriate ban
ners and emblems.
In addition to these festivic demonstra
tions, fifty thousand miniature United
States flags had beeji gratuitously dis
tributed by the committee on arrange
ments. These were exhibited at all avail
able points, and were -waved with enthu
siasm as the presidents and other known
public men rode by.
At least 100,000 throats voiced a con
tinuous welcome from the time the pro
cession started until the capitol was
reached. And these vociferations were
still more enthusiastically echoed on the
return trip.
THE GRAND MARSHAL.
The grand marshal entrusted with the
direction of today’s pageant was Gen.
Horace Porter, formerly of the staff of
Gen. Grant. His organizing skill had
been, tested in peatee as well as in war—
notably in the conduct of the great sound
money procession through the narrow
and tortuous streets of New York city
last October during the presidential cam
paign. With the broad avenufs and
smooth asphalted streets of Washington,
Gen. Porter had full opportunities to dis
play- his genius for controlling the move
ments of large bodies of men, and he
availed himself of them.
THE PRESIDENTS,
From the nature of the day’s proceed
ings there tvera practically two proces
sions, though at the close they merged
into one massive and impressive body,
part military, part civic, and each most
effective. The escort, largely military,
but also consisting of governors of dif
ferent states and 1 other distinguished
guests of .honor which accompanied the
president and president-elect to the capi
tol, naturally formed in the immediate vi
cinity of the White- House, the executive
mansion. The civic organizations which
followed the president and ex-president
on their return Journey fro-m the capitol
to the White House, were formed on a
street adjacent to the capitol grounds.
All were arranged so that each division
fell into line at the appointed time with
out delay or confusion.
The military division, preceded by a
platoon of mounted police and followed
by the Governor’s Island (N. Y.) band,
was headed, of course, by the Grand
Marshal, his staff and aides, three hun
dred In number^ selected from all the
states In the Union, all mounted, some
wearing crimson sashes and others white.
The Grand Marshal himself wore a sash
blending the national colors.
THE SONS OF PRESIDENTS.
By a happy thought Invitations had
been extended to all the living sons of
those who had served as Uie nation’s
chief executive and U. S. OTant, Webb
C. Hayes, Harry A. Garfield, Chester A.
Arthur and Russell Harrison served as
special aides on the occasion.
The first division of the military pa
rade, commanded by the gallant cavalry
leader, Gen. Wesley Merritt, Included a
battalion of United States engineers, the
Seventeenth United States Infantry, four
bakeries of United States artillery, a
regiment of United States marines, 500
sailors of the North Atlantic squadron
made up from the crews of the New York,
Columbia and Indiana, now anchored at
Hampton Roads, and commanded by
Capt. Sar.us, of the Columbia, whose ap
pearance, as is always the case when
the blue jackets come ashore, was wel
comed with hearty cheers, followed by a
battalion of light artillery and a regiment
of United States cavalry.
M’KINLEY’S MOVEMENTS.
President-elect McKinley, who had left
his handsomely fitted up suite of rooms
at the Ebbttt house sufficiently early to
pay his call of ceremony on the retiring
president, was driven to the white house,
escorted by the senate committee ap
pointed for that purpose, where In one of
the state apartments, he was received
and welcomed by President Cleveland
amj hip cabinet.
Then the twd presidents descended the
white house stops and together entered a
four-horse carriage, Mr. Cleveland sitting
to the right, and amtd the booming of
cannon, the clatter of cavalry, the deep,
hoarse rumble of artillery, the measured
tramu of many columns of Infantry, and
the blare of Innumerable bands, the
march to the capitol began. In another
four-horse carriage, following the presi
dent, rode Vice-President-elect Hobart
and the senators deputed to escort him
to the scene of his future duties. Then
in a long stream of carriages came the
distinguished guests. The president's
personal escort was Troop A, of Cleve
land, O., eighty cavalrymen mounted on
coal black charges, and, still more Inter
esting, a detachment of grizzled veterans
from the Twenty-third Ohio Volunteers,
Major McKinley’s old regiment.
THE MILITARY.
Gen. Nelson Miles, commanding the
United States army, and Rear Admiral
George Brown, ranking officer of the
navy, in full uniform, rode Immediately
after the presidential party. The second
brigade of the first division consisted of
the superbly' drilled and handsomely
equipped national guard of the District
of Columbia.
A more brilliant and Inspiring scene
than this part of the pageant presented
could hardly be pictured. The yellow
plumes, sfcarlet-llned cloaks and bright
blue tunics of the cavalry; the huge black
bearskin shakos and snow white trousers
of the national guard; the gaily comparl
soned a.nd gold bedecked white-plumed
coats of the staff; the vivid crimson and
gold-laced coats of the famed Marine
band, contrasting -with the blue uniforms
of the marine corps, and the picturesque
sailor costumes of the jack tars, formed
a constantly changing kaleidoscopic pic
ture of flashing light and color extreme
ly beautiful to witness.
NOT TAMMANY’S YEAR.
From a spectacular point of view the
parade was distinctly benefited by the
absence of some features which were con
spicuous in the corresponding par3de of
previous inaugurations. The Pennsylva
nia militia, eight thousand strong, who
marched to the capitol with Mr. Cleve
land, each company so exactly alike the
other that the monotony tired the eye,
and all attired In the serviceable, but
dull, sombre-looking, regulation army
blue, were not ordered to Washington
this time. Tammany's three thousand
braves, in black coats and tall silk hats,
who came over from New York to see Mr.
Cleveland Installed, had no Interest in
McKinley and stayed at home. This was
not Tammany’s year.
THE GOVERNORS.
The second division of the parade was
not secondary to the first in public in
terest, except that It lacked the presence
of a president to be and a president that
had been. In lieu thereof it presented to
the admiring plaudits of the crowds the
governors of nine great stales, each es
corted by a gorgeously uniformed Etaff
and detachments from the national
guards of other states.
At the head of the division was a fit
ting honor to the state from which the
presidentelect was chosen, rode Gov.
Asa S. Busbnell, of Ohio, as marshal.
Then followed Gov. Griggs, of New Jer
sey; Gov. Lowndes, of Maryland;, Gov.
Black, of New York; Gov. Bradley, of
Kentucky; Gov. Grout, of Vermont; Gov.
Tanner, of Illinois; Gov. Drake, of Iowa,
and Gov. Schofield, of Wisconsin. Each
of these dignatarles was accompanied by
numerous aides, and most of them by
regiments or companies of their state
national guard.
In this latter manner the states of
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Virginia,
North Carolina, Rhode Island. Texas
and Minnesota were also well repre
sent-; d.
At the head of the third and last di
vision of the military parade rode one
armed Gen. O. O. Howard, and after him
marched the grizzled veterans of the
Grand Army of the Republic, many of
whom had served under him at Gettys
burg and Chattanooga.
CONGRESS’ PART.
In the meantime the houses of con
gress were making preparations for their
part in the ceremonies. The house of
representatives, headed by Speaker Reed,
proceeded in a body to -the senate cham
b. r, where seats had been assigned them.
Vice-President Adlat E. Stevenson pre
sided over the Joint assembly, but simply
till the hour should arrive when he
should step down to make way for his
successor.
The eight Justices of the supreme court
of th- United States robed In silk gowns,
but wearing no wigs, occupied a front
row of chairs to the right of the pre
siding officer.
Behind them in their oirder of preced
ure entered the diplomatic corps, all of
whom, except the representative of the
Swiss and South and Central American
republics, were resplendent In official uni
form and adorned with the insignia of
decorations oonf:rred.
Sir Julian Paunceforte, the British am
bassador, took prec-dence. He was fol
lowed by the French -and German am
bassadors; the Mexican and Austrian
ministers, and vividly conspicuous In
their quaint silken dresses, the mem
bers of the Chinese legation came- next.
They were the only orientals who wore
their national costume.
AT THE CAPITOL.
When promptly at noon, Ex-President
Cleveland and President McKinley enter
ed the chamber, the whole assemblage
rose to receive them as they took the
seats of honor set apart for their respect
ive reception. Vice-President Steven
son, to whom the senate accorded a
unanimous vote of thanks for his cour
tesy and ability in the chair, returned his
thanks in graceful terms. He said:
STEVENSON’S FAREWELL.
Senators: The hour has arrived, which
marks the close of the Fifty-fourtb-can
gress, and terminates my official rela
tion to this body. Before laying down
the gavel for the last time, I may be par
doned for detaining you for a moment In
the attempt to give expression to my
gratitude for the uniform courtesy ex
tended me—for the many kindnesses
shown me—during the time It has been
my good fortune to preside over your
deliberations. My appreciation of the
resolution of the senate personal to my
self can find no adequate expression In
words. Intentionally, I have at no time
given offense: and I carry from this pres
ence no shadow of feeling of unkindness
towards any senator—no memory of a
grievance.
Chief among the favors political for
tune has bestowed upon me, I count that
of having beeh the associate, and of hav
ing known something of the friendship
of the men with whom I have so long
held official relation In this chamber. To
have been the presiding officer of this au
gust body Is an honor of which even the
most illustrious citizen might be proud.
I am persuaded that no occupant of this
chair, during the 180 years of our con
stitutional history, ever entered upon the
discharge of the duties pertaining to this
office, more deeply impressed with a
sense of the responsibilities Imposed, or
with a higher appreciation of the char
acter and dignity of the great legislative
assembly.
During the term Just closing questions
of deep Import to political parties and to
the country have here found earnest, and
at times passionate discussion. HJI's
chamber has indeed, been the arena of
great debate. The record of four years
of parliamentary struggles, of masterful
debates, of Important legislation, is clos
ed and passes now to the domain of his
tory. .
I think T can truly say, in the words
of a distinguished predecessor: “In the
discharge of my official duties I have
known no cause, no party, no friends.”
It has been my earnest-endeavor justly
to interpret, and faithfully execute the
rules of the sejiate. At times the temp
tation may be strong to compass partisan
ends by a disregard Or a perversion.of
the rules. Yet, I think It safe to say
the result, however salutory, will be
dearly purchased by a departure from the
methods prescribed by the senate for Its
own guidance. A single Instance as In
dicated, might prove the forerunner of
untold evils.
‘"Twill be recorded for a precedent, and
many an error, by the same example,
will rush into the state.' ”
It must not be forgotten that the rules
governing thi3 body are founded deep in
human experience; that they are the re
sult of centuries of tireless effort in leg
islative halls, to conserve, to render sta
ble and secure the rights and liberties
which have been achieved by conflict.
By Its rules the senate wisely fixes the
limits to its own power. Of those who
! clamor against the senate, and its meth
ods of ptocedure, it may be truly said:
“They know not what they do."
In this chamber alone are preserved,
without restraint, two essentials of wise
legislation and a good government—the
right of amendment and debate. Great
evils often result from hasty legislation
—iiarely from the delay which follows
full discussion! and deliberation. In my
humble Judgment the historic senate,
preserving the unrestricted right of
amendment and debate, maintaining In
tact the time-honored parliamentary
methods and amenittes which unfailingly
secure action after deliberation—pos
sesses in our scheme of government a
value which cannot be measured by
words.
The senate is a perpetual body. In
the terse words of an- eminent Eenator
now present: "The men who framed the
constitution had studied thoroughly all
former attempts ut republican govern
ment. History was strewn with the
wrecks of unsuccessful democracies.
Sometimes the usurpation of the execu
tive power; sometimes the fickleness and
unbridled license of the people, had
brought popular governments to destruc
tion. To guard against these dangers
they placed the chief hope in the sen
ate.
The senate, which was organized In
1789, at the Inauguration of the govern
ment, abides and will continue to abide,
one and the same body, until the repub
lic itself shall be overthrown, or time
shall be no more.”
Twenty-four senators who have occu
pied seats In this chamber during my
i term of office, are no longer members
■ of this body. Five of that number, Stan
ford, Colquitt, Vance, Stockbridge and
Wilson, shattered with the great hall,
full of years and honors, have passed
from earthly scenes. The fall of the
gavel win conclude the long and honor
able terms of service of other senators
who wS1 be borne in kind remembrance
by the It associates who remain.
I would do no violence to my feelings
if I failed to express my thanks to the
officers of this body for the fidelity with
which they 'have discharged their Im
portant duties, half the timely assist
ance and unfailing courtesy of which I
have been the recipient.
For the able and distinguished gentle
man who succeeds me as your presiding
officer, I earnestly invoke the same co
operation and courtesy you have so gen
erously accorded me.
Senators, my parting words have been
spoken, and I now discharge my last of
ficial duty, that of declaring the senate
adjourned without (jay.
SENATE'S EXTRA SESSION.
The extra session of the senate of the
flfty-flftih congress, called by President
Cleveland to meet at 12 noon, March 4,
then commenced. The late vlce-presidentt
made his way for his successor, Mr. Ho
fbart, to whom the oath of office was ad
ministered, after which he made a brief
tiddress as follows:
SPEECH OF VICE-PRESIDENT HO
BART.
Senators: To have been elected to pre
side over the senate of tlfe United States
is a distinction which any citizen would
prize, and the manifestation of confi
dence which It implies is an honor which
I sincerely appreciate.
My gratitude and loyalty to the people
to whom I owe this honor, and my duty
to you as well, demand such a conserva
tive, equitable and conscientious con
struction and enforcement of your rules
as shall promote the well-being and pros
perity of the people, and at the same
time conserve the time-honored prece
dents and established traditions which
have contributed to make this tribunal
the most distinguished of the legislative
bodies In the world.
In entering upon the duties of the of-'
fice to which I have been chosen, I feel a
peculiar delicacy, for I am aware that
your body with whom, for a time, I will
be associated, has had but a small voice
1n the selection of Us presiding office!-,
and that I am called upon to conduct
your deliberations, while not perhaps
your choice in point of either merit or
fitness. It will be my constant effort to
aid you, so far as I may, in all reasonable
expedition of the business of the senate
and I may be permitted to express the
belief that much expedition Is the hope
of the country. All the interests of good
government and the advancement to
ward a higher and better condition of
things call for prominent and positive
legislation at your hands. To obstruct
the regular course of wise and prudent
legislative action after the fullest and
freest discussion Is neither consistent
with true senatorial courtesy, conducive
to the welfare of the people, nor In com
plance with their Just expectations.
While assisting in the settlement of the
grave questions which devolve upon the
senate of the United States, It will be
my endeavor to so guide Its deliberations
that Its wisdom may be made fruitful in
works, whilst at the same time exercis
ing such fairness and Impartiality with
the rules of the senate as shall deserve,
a't least, your good opinion for the sin
cerity of my effort.
Unfamiliar with your rules and man
ners of procedure, I can only promise
that I will bring all the ability 1 possess
to the faithful discharge of every duty
as it may devolve upon me, relying al
ways on your suggestions, your advice
and your co-operation, I should feel un
equal to the task did I not trustfully an
ticipate that Indulgent aid and considera
tion which you have at a-'l times given to
my predecessors, and without which I
could not hope to acquaint myself to
your satisfaction or with any degree of
personal credit.
It shall be my highest aim to justify the
confidence the people have reposed in me
by discharging my duties in such a man
ner as to lighten your labors, secure
your appreciation of my honest effort,
to administer your rules with an eye sin
gle to the public good, and promote the
pleasant and effect transaction of the
public business.
I trust that our official and personal re
lations may be alike agreeable; that the
friendship we may form here may he
genuine and lasting and that the work
of the senate may redound to the peace
and honor of the country and the pros
perity and happiness of ail the people.
He then proceeded In his turn to swear
in such as were present of the thirty
senators whose terms either of election
or re-election began contemporaneously
■with that of the president. This cere
mony completed, both houses of con
gress and many of the more privileged
spectators adjourned to the eastern por
tico.
M’KINLEY SWORN IN.
There, In the presence of an Immense
throng, Chief Justice Fuller adminis
tered to President McKlnely the brief
obligation prescribed to maintain the
constitution ahd enforce the laws of the
United States, and President McKinley
delivered his Inaugural addrest.
MCKINLEY’S ADDRESS.
Follow Citizens: In obedience to the
will of the people and In their presence
by the authority vested in me by this
oath, I assume the arduous and responsi
ble duties of president of the United
States, relying in the support of my
countrymen and Invoking the guidance
of Almighty God'. Onr faith teaches that
there Is no safer reliance than upon our
Father who has so singularly favored
the American people in every national
trial, and who will not forsake us so long
as we obey His commandments and walk
humbly In His footsteps. The responsi
bilities of the high trust to which I have
been called, always of grave importance,
are augmented by the prevailing busi
ness conditions, entailing Idleness upon
willing labor and loss to useful enter
prise. The country is suffering from In
dustrial disturbances from which a
speedy relief must be had.
OUR FINANCIAL SYSTEM
needs some revision; our money Is all
good now, but Its value must not be
further threatened. Our currency
should oontinue under the supervision
of the government. The several forms of
our paper money offers in my Judgment
a constant embarrassment to the govern
ment and a safe balance In the treasury.
Therefore I believe It necessary tc de
vise a system which without diminish
ing the circulating medium or offering
a premium for Its contraction will pre
sent a remedy for those arrangements
which, temporary In their nature, might
well In the years of our prosperity have
been displaced by wiser provisions. With
adequate revenue secured, but not until
then, we can enter upon such changes
In our fiscal laws as will, while insuring
safety and volume to our money, no
longer impose upon the government the
necessity of maintaining so large a gold
reserve, with its attendant and Inevit
able temptations to speculation. Most
of our financial law's are the outgrowth
of experience and trial and should not
be amended without investigation, and
demonstration of the wisdom of the pro
posed changes. We must be both sure
we are right and make haste slowly. If
then, congress in Its wisdom shall deem
it expedient to create a commission to
take under early consideration the re
vision of our coinage, banking and cur
rency laws, and give them that ex
haustive, careful and dispassionate ex
amination that their importance de
mands, I shall cord.lalUy concur in such
action.
Ir such power 151 vested in the president
it is my purpose to appoint a commission
of prominent, well informed citizens of
different parties who wild command pub
lic confidence both on account of their
ability and special fitness for the work.
Business experience and public training
may thus be combined and tbe patriotic
zeal of tbe friends of the country be so
directed that such a report will be made
as to receive the support of nil parties
and our finances cease to be the subject
of mere partisan contention. The ex
periment is at all events worth a trial and
In my opinion it can but prove beneficial
to the entire country. The question of
INTERNATIONAL BIMETALLISM
will have early and earnest, attention, it
will be my constant endeavor to secure
it by co-operation with the other great
commercial powers of the world. Until
that condition is realized when the parity
between our gold and silver money
springs from and is supported by the
relative value of the two metals, the
value of silver, already coined and of that
which may hereafter be coined must be
kept constantly at par with gold by every
resource at our command. The oredlt bf
a government, the integrity of Its cur
rency and the Inviolability of its obliga
tions must be preserved. This was the
commanding verdict of the people and it
will not be unheeded.
ECONOMY IS DEMANDED
in every branch of the government at all
■times, but especially in periods like the
present of depression, in business and dis
tress among the people. The severest
economy must be observed In all public
expenditures and extravagance stopped
wherever it is found and prevented
wherever in the future it may be develop
ed. If the revenues are to remain as now
the only relief that comes must be from
decreased expenditures.
But the present must not become the
permanent condition of the government.
It has been our uniform practice to re
tire, not to Increase our outstanding ob
ligations, and this policy must again be
resumed and vigorously enforced. Our
revenues should always be large enough
to meet with ease and promptness, not
only our current needs and thee princi
pal and Interest of the public debt, but
to make proper and liberal provisions for
that most deserving body of public cre
ditors, the soldiers and sailors and the
widows and orphans who are the pension
ers of the United States. The govern
ment should not be permitted to run
behind nor increase its debt in times like
the present. Suitably to provide against
this is the mandate of duty; the certain
and easy remedy for most of our finan
cial difficulties. A deficiency is Inevi
table so long as the expenditures of the
government exceed its receipts. It can
only be met by loans or increased reve
nue. While a large annual surplus of
revenue may invite waste and extrava
gance, Inadequate revenues create dis
trust and undermine public and private
credit. Neither should be encouraged.
Between more loans and more revenue
there ought to be one opinion.
WE SHOULD HAVE MORE REVENUE
and that without delay, hindrance or
postponment. A surplus in the treas
ury created by loans Is not a permanent
or safe reliance. It will suffice while it
lasts, but it cannot last long while the
outlays of the government are greater
than Us receipts, as has been the case
during the past two years. Nor must
It be forgotten that however much such
loans may temporarily relieve the situa
tion, the government is still indebted for
the amount of the surplus thus accrued
which it must ultimately pay while its
stability to pay Is not strengthened, but
weakened by a continued deficit. Loans
are imperative in great emergencies to
preserve the government of its credit, but
a failure to supply needed revenue in
times of peace for the maintenance of
either has no Justification The best
way for the government to maintain its
credit is to pay as It goes, not by re
sorting to loans, but by keeping out of
debt, through an adequnte Income se
cured by a system of taxation, external
or Internal, or both.
It is the settled policy of the govern
ment. pursued from the beginning and
practiced by all parties and administra
tions to raise the bulk of our revenue
from taxes upon foreign productions en
tering the United States for sale and con
sumption and avoiding for the most part
every form of direct taxation except in
time of war. The country is clearly op
posed to any needless additions to the
subjects of Internal taxation and is com
mitted by Its latest popular utterance to
the cystem of tariff taxation. There can
be no misunderstanding about the prin
ciple upon which this tariff taxation
shall be levied. Nothing has ever been
made plainer at a general election than
that the controlling principle of raising
revenue from duties on imports is zeal
ous care for American interest and Amer
ican labor. The people have declared
that such legislation should be had as
will give ample protection and encourage
ment to the Industries and the develop
ment of our country- It is. therefore,
earnestly hoped and expected that con
gress will at the earliest practicable mo
ment enact revenue legislation that shall
be fair, reasonable, conservative and
Just and which, while supplying sufficient
revenue for public purposes will still be
sigmtl'y beneficial and helpful to every
section and every enterprise of the peo
ple. To this policy we are all, of what
ever party, firmly bound by the voice of
the people, a power vastly more poten
tial than the expression of any political
platform.
THE PARAMOUNT DUTY OF CON
GRESS
Is to ctop deficiencies by the restoration
of that protective legislation which has
always been 1 dranest prop of the treas
ury. The ptf 4. so of such a law or laws
would strep ,?* en the credit of the gov
ernment, b'w- at home and abroad, and
go far toy , ,s stopping the drain upon
the gold ' 4; rve held for the redemption
of the o' rs ncy which has been heavy
and wef.c*3'h constant for several years.
In tb ‘vision of the tariff, especial
attend should be given to the re-en
actmf £ ind extension of the reciprocity
prin/ * of the law of 1890, under which
so ( s t a stimulus was given to our
for' fui trade in new and advantageous
mf »•“ :s for our surplus agricultural and
manufactured products. The brief trial
given this legislation amply Justifies a
further experiment and additional dis
cretionary power in the making of com
mercial treaties, the end In view always
to be the opening up of new markets
for the products of our country, by grant
ing concessions to the products of other
lands that we need and cannot produce
ourselves and which do not Involve any
loss of labor to our own people, but tend
to increase their employment.
The depression for the past four years
has fallen with special severity upon the
great body of toilers of the country and
upon none more than the holders of small
farms. Agriculture has languished and
labor suffered. The revival of manufac
turing will be a relief to both. No por
tion of our population is more devoted to
the institutions of free government nor
more loyal to their support while none
bear more cheerfully or fully its proper
share in the maintenance of the govern
ment, or is better entitled to its wise andl
liberal care and protection. Legislation
helpful to producers is beneficial to all.
The depressed condition of industry on
the farm and in the mine and factory has
lessened the ability of the people to meet
the demands upon them and they right
fully expect that not only a systm of
revenue shall be established that will se
cure the largest income with the least
burden, but that every means will be
taken to decrease rather than increase
our public expenditures.
BUSINESS CONDITIONS
are not the most promising. It will take
time to restore the prosperity of former
yc-ars. If we cannot promptly attain it
we can resolutely turn our faces in that
direction and aid its return for friendly
legislation. However troublesome the
situation may appear congress will not,
I am sure, be found lacking in disposi
tion or ability to relieve it as far as leg
islation can do. The restoration of con
fidence and the revival of business
which men of all parties so much desire
depend more largely upon the prompt,
energetic and intelligent action of con
gress than upon any other single agency
affecting the situation. It is inspiring,
too, to remember that no great emer
gency In the one hundred and eight years
of our eventful national life has ever
risen that has not been met with wis
dom and oourage by the American people
with fidelity to their best interest and
highest destiny and to the honor of the
American name. These years of glorious
history have exalted mankind and ad
vanced the cause of freedom throughout
the world and lmmeiasureably strength
ened to the precious free Institutions
Which we enjoy. The people love and
will sustain these institutions. The great
essential to our happiness and prosperity
Is that we adhere to the principles upon
which the government was established
and insist upon their faithful observance.
Equality of rights must prevail and our
laws be always and everywhere respected
and obeyed. We may have failed in the
discharge of our full duty as citizens of
the great republic, but it is consoling and
encouraging to realize that free speech,
a free press, free thought, schools and un
molested right of religious liberty and
worship and free and fair elections are
dearer and more universally enjoyed to
day than ever before. These guarantees
must he sacredly preserved .and wisely
strengthened. The constituted authori
ties must be cheerfully and vigor usly up
held.
LYNCHINOS
must not be tolerated in a great and
civilized country like the United States;
courts, not mobs, must execute She pen
alties of the law. The preservation of
public order, the right of discussion, the
integrity of the courts and the orderly,
administration of Justice must continue
forever the rock of safety upon which
our government securely rests. One of
I'he lessons taught by the late election,
which we all can rejoice in, is that tha
citizens of the United States are both
law-respecting and abiding people, not
easily swerved from the path of patriot
ism and honor. This Is in entire accord
with the genius of our institutions and
but emphasizes the advantages of incul
cating even a great love for
law and order in the future.
Immunity sthould be granted to
none who violate the laws, whether in
dividuals, corporations or communities,
and as the constitution Imposes upon the
president the duty of both its own exe
cution and of the statutes enacted In
pursuance of its provisions. I shall en
deavoT carefully to carry them Into ef
f
OPPOSED TO TRUSTS.
The declaration of the party now re
stored to power has been In the past that
of "opposition to nil combinations of
capital organized In trusts or ebewhere,
to control arbitrarily the condition of
trade among our citizens,” and It has
suppressed "sucfh legislation as will pre
vent the execution of all schemes to op
press the people by unduechargcs on their
supplies or by unjust rates for the trans
portation of their products to market."
This purpose will be steadily pursued
both by the enforcement of the laws now
In existence and the recommendation and
support of such new statutes as may ba
necessary to carry It Into effect. Our
naturalization and Immigration laws
should be further Improved to the con
stant promotion of a safer, a better and
higher citizenship. A grnvn peril to the
republic would be a Citizenship too ig
norant to understand or too vicious to
appreciate the great value and benefi
cence of our Institutions and laws and
against all who come here to make war
upon them our gates must be promptly
and tightly closed, nor must we be un
mindful of the need of Improvement
among our own citizens, but with the zeal
of our forefathers encourage the spread
of knowledge and free education. Illit
eracy must b“ banished from the land
If we shall attain that high destiny as
the foremost of the enlightened nations of
the world, which under providence we
ought to achieve.
CIVIL SERVICE.
Reforms In the civil service must go on,
but the changes should be real and genu
ine. not perfunctory or prompted by a
zeal in behalf of any party simply be
cause It happens to be In power. As %
member of congress I voted and spoka
In favor of the present law, and I shall at
tempt Its enforcement In the spirit In
which It was enacted. The purpose in
view was to secure the most efficient serv
iae of the best men who would accept ap
pointment under the government, retain
ing faithful and devoted public servants
In office, but shielding none under the au
thority of any rule or custom who ara
Inefficient, Incompetent or unworthy.
The best Interests of the country de
mand this and th? people heartily apfBIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
volume 23 Birmingham:, ala., Saturday, march e, 1897. number 41
THE UINETJONFIRMED
Bliss the Only One to Meet Op
position.
MARCUS ALONZO HANNA
Of Cayuga County, Ohio, the Able Lieutenant
of the Major,
DONS A SENATORIAL TOGA
With Foraker He Feces the Vice-President
and Takes the Oath-Floral Offer
ings from Jjabor to Pennsyl
vania’s Benators.
Washington, March 5.—Th? proceedings
of the first session of the Fifty-fifth con
gress were witnessed today by a very
large assemblage of spectators In the gal
• leries of the senate ohamber, the senate
being today without the legislative part
nership of the house of representatives
which body will remain in a state of sus
pended animation until called into re
newed existence on the first day of the
extraordinary session soon to be con
vened by President McKinley.
The republican side of the chamber
looked as though the contents of a con
servatory had been deposited in it.
Magnificent floral offerings had been
placed on the desks of numerous sena
tors who had taken the oath of office
yesterday, as well as on that of Vice
President Hohart. Among the senators
so distinguished were Foraker, of Ohio;
Spencer, of Wisconsin; Penrose, of Penn
sylvania; Platt, of New York; and Fair
banks, of Indiana.
The democratic side of the chamber
was free from such offerings. Senator
Wolcott, (rep. of Colorado), back from
his European travel in furtherance of an
International monetary conference, was
in his place and received greetings from
his associates.
As soon as the Journal of yesterday’s
formal meeting was read the new senator
from Ohio, Mr. Foraker, rose and pre
sented the credentials of Mr, Hanna as
successor to Mr. Sherman, resigned.
The credentials were read. They- were
dated at Columbus, O., March 5."1897, and
recite that by reason of the resignation
of Mr. SheTman as senator from the state
of Ohio, there is a vacancy which (the
legislature not being in session), the gov
ernor js authorized to fill, he has appoint
ed "Marcus Alonzo Hanna, of Cayuga
county, Ohio, to fill it from today until
a successor be eleoted and qualified.”
The credentials having been read, Vice
President Hobart invited Mr. Hanna to
come forward and take the oath of office.
Together the two republican senators
from Ohio, who take the places of Sena
tors Brice and Sherman, walked to the
vice-president’s desk, where the oath was
duly administered to Hanna, after a
round of hand-clapping in the galleries
and then Senators Foraker and Hanna
took their seats, not together, but at some
distance apart.
The next stage in the proceedings of the
day was the appointment of a committee
of two senators, Allison, of Iowa, and
Gorman, of Maryland, to wait upon the
president of the United States and in
form him that a quorum of the senate
is assembled and that the senate is ready
to receive any communication he may de
sire to make. The next stage was the
adoption of a resolution, offered by Fr-,
republican, of Maine, directing that until
otherwise ordered, Mr. Davis, republican,
of Minnesota, be acting chairman of the
committee on for-ign relations, the chair
manship having been vacated through
the retirement of Sherman.
And then a recess was taken until 12:45.
During the. recess a large artistic struc
ture of flowers in. which the national flag
was figured out tvas placed on the desk
of Mr. Quay, republican, of Pennsylva
nia, with a card showing it to t>e the of
fering of "The Bourgeoise and the Men
in Blouses.” The flowers which had been
previously placed on the desk of Mr.
Cameron's successor, Mr. Penrose, were
from the "Dabor Union” a (id figured out
the embleml of labor, the brawny uplifted
arm of the worker.
When the recess ended and the senate
was again called to order, Senators Al
lison ami Gorman made their report that
they had waited upon the president of
the United States and that the president
had sent "his kindly greeting to the sen
ate” and Informed them that he would at
once communicate with them In writing.
The report had no sooner been made than
the president's promise was fulfilled. Mr.
Fruden, of his secretaries, appearing and
delivering a "sundry message in writing.”
Thereupon, at 12:39, the senate, on mo
tion of Mr. Haie, republican, of Maine,
proceeded to the consideration of execu
tive business and at 2:37 p. tn. adjourned
until Monday.
(The length of tne executive session led
to the rumor that a contest was being
made ogalnst the confirmation of at least
two of the members of the cabinet, se
lected by President McKinley. Rumor
had It that the opposition was aimed at
Mr. McKenna, selected for the attorney
generalship, and Mr. Alger, for secretary
of war.
The delay was unusual The nomina
tion of Mr. Sherman was confirmed Im
mediately without the formality of a
reference to the committee. While this
Js not the invariable rule, It is generally
extended ex-senators as an act of cour
tesy. The rule hns been proved in the
past, however, by several marked ex
ceptions. It was suggested privately on
the floor that the whole cabinet be at
once confirmed; but this was not done,
for had such action been taken the com
pliment Intended for Mr. Sherman would
not have been a compliment at all.
All the other nominations were referred
to the various oommlttees, which at once
met in the cloak rooma adjoining the
chamber, and nfter an Informal discus
sion of the nominations, made favorable
reports In each case.
Mr. Teller addressed the senate briefly,
He raid he did not want to oppose any
selection Mr. McKinley had made. He
recognized the fact that the cabinet was
the family of the executive, and the pres
ident ought not to be hampered by the
Beiiate In the choice of his cabinet.
But he did oppose the confirmation of
Mr, Bliss.
Mr. Teller emphasized the fact that lie
did not criticise the nomination of Mr.
Bliss on personal grounds. He held Mr.
Bliss to be a man of affairs who had
been successful and was held high in the
esteem of his fellow men. He did n<?t
doubt Dlit that Mr. BltSs Would bring |<j
the office all his business and executive
ability. The Interior department was one
of the most Important In the government,
affecting Interests In many of the states
and particularly those of the great west
The secretary annually made more im
portant decisions involving property than
did the supreme court of the United
Btatea. The head of this great depart
nient ought to be equipped with legal
ability and a familiarity with lanl mat
ters to meet the intricate questions that
would^ome beforedt, and for this reason
and for this reason only, Mr. Teller said,
the nomination Was subject to criticism.
Mr. Stewart (pop. Nev.), spoke briefly
In the same vein, oorroborating what Mr.
Teller had said about the importance of a
head to this department who would be
able to deal justly and judicially in the
matters In dispute constantly coming be
fore the court of which the secretary
was the reviewing judge.
Mr. Hoar, of Massachusetts, replied to
Mr. Teller's criticisms by praising the
ability and' qualifications of Mr. Bliss
and. addressing himself to the one point
made by Mr. Teller, asserted that this
could easily be overcome by the selec
tion of assistant secretaries who would
have those qualifications that would
guide the secretary in his rulings.
No other speeches were made. The
names of Gen. Alger and Judge Mc
Kenna were not mentioned in the dis
cussion. and all the nominations were
then confirmed -without a formal vote
being taken.
SUN’S COTTON,
New York, March 5.—Spot ootton here
was unchanged with sales of 200 bales
for spinning. Middling uplands 7 3-16
against 7 5-8 last year; New Orleans and
Gulf 7 7-16 against 7 7-8 last year.
There was more disposition to buy than
to sell today and after a slight decline
at the opening, due to sysmpathy with
the depression in Liverpool, the market
here rallied and advanced, prices closing
firm at about the highest of the day. The
trading was mainly local, but included
moderate buying and selling for Liver
pool and southern account. The receipts
at the ports and the interior towns for
the week were large. Liverpool was low
er both for futures and spots and the
spot markets in this city were quiet and
in some instances easier; but on the other
hand the exports from the ports were
heavy. The estimates for New Orleans
and Houston tomorrow were small and
there was i>o pressure to sell here so that
the prices were easily advanced on local
demand for long account together with
covering of shorts.
STRUCK BY A STORM.
Nashville and Near-By Towns Have an
Uncomfortable Experience With the
Wind—Hay Houses Unroofed.
Nashville, Tenn., March 5.—A vigorous,
brief, but terrifying cyclone struck Nash
ville today about 9:30 o’clock, doing con
siderable damage. For the third time
since its erection nearly half a century
ago the sky-piercing spire which adorns
the MoKendree church, possibly the larg
est and wealthiest southern Methodist
congregation in the union, has suffered
injury. This time it has been completely
wrecked, lifted from Its base and- scat
tered over the tops of adjacent business
houses and piled in the near-by allies.
Rumors were at once circulated that
the centennial buildings had been wreck
ed, but, strange to say, they came
through unscathed.
Scores of the big down-town business
houses were unroofed, and the Masonic
temple slightly damaged. No fatalities
have been reported as yet.
News comes from Rives, a small town
in west Tennessee, that several houses
were unroofed by a cyclone this morning.
The Illinois Central railroad depot and
Memphis and Charleston Railroad hotel
were both badly damaged. The office
and large barn at the race track were
completely demolished. No loss of life
or stock Is reported1.
Manchester, fifty miles southeast of
Nashville, was struck by a shout, but
vigorous wind storm about noon, and
several houses unroofed.
AT HUNTINGTON, VA.
Huntington, W. Va„ March 6.—The
hurricane in Southwest Virginia at 2
o’clock this afternoon proved far more
disastrous than the recent flood. Hun
dreds of buildings were unroofed and
many of the. smaller ones were upset.
The sou tit end df "Marshall college build
ing collapsed, causing a panic and many
ludies fell ar.d had to be carried from the
building. In Central City every industry
in town suffered a heavy loss, while the
massive chimneys on Washington school
fell through the roof and went to the
second floor. A dozen children were
more or less injured. Several churches
were badly damaged. Trees falling
across the railroad -tracks have paralyzed
travel and crippled the telegraph wires.
FROM KENTUCKY TOWNS,
Louisville, Ky„ March 5.—A cyclone
did considerable damage in Central Ken
tucky this morning. At Winchester sev
eral buildings were unroofed and three
new ones demolished. At Mount Sterling
the McBrayer distillery was unroofed.
The Louisville and Nashville round house
at Rowland was wrecked and property
suffered severely at Stanford. Southern
Indiana was flooded last night by the
heaviest rain in years. The Baltimore
and Ohio Southwestern has three heavy
washouts near Seymour and the Pennsyl
vania two. The bridge on the Evans
ville and Richmond, between Bedford
and Seymour, is washed out. One train
was wrecked by going through a cul
vert.
Ex-QUEEN BID'S' PRESENCE
Tn the Diplomatic Gallery at the Inau
guration Exercises Explained.
Washington, March 5.—Ex-Secretary of
State Olney disclaims any personal re
sponsibility for ex-Queen Lil. of Hawaii,
in the diplomatic gallery of the senate
yesterday, and to offset yesterday’s pub
lication that the ex-regal presence there
during the inauguration was due to a
surreptitious gift of a ticket to her by the
state department, exhibts the following
letter:
United States Senate,
Committee on Foreign Relations,
Feb. 26, 1897.
Hon. Richard Olney, Secretary of State:
Sir—Ex-Queen 1.11 Is desirous of wit
nessing the inauguration of the president
and cice-presld'ont-elect on the 4th of
March, and she has Ynade application
through her friends for two seats, one for
herself and one for her escort.
It ts impossible for the committee of
arrangements to provide these places ex
cept tn the diplomatic gallery, but as the
tickets to that g-allery are to be sent to
you for distribution, the committee does
not feel at ltberty to assign seats In the
gallery to any one.
It Is, however, the Judgment of the com
mittee of arrangements chat you provide
the scats for the ex-queen out of the sixty
to bo sent to you for the use of the dip
lomatic ccrp3. Very respectfully.
JOHN SHERMAN,
Chairman of Arrangements Committee.
HAD BROOD MONET.
Atlanta, Ga., March 5.—A special from
! Valhalla, S. C., to the Constitution, sifs
I that Bud Brooks, an accessory In the
i murder of J. M. Hunt, In Jackson county,
, Georgia, has been arrested. Brooks says
that Grady Reynolds compelled him to
kill Hunt. Brooks had $300 of Hunt’s
money when captured. The two mur
derers got $2,200. Reynolds is In jail at
* Gainesville, Ga.
WEEKLY REVIEW OF TRACE
Slow and Gradual Improvement
Continues.
BETTER DEMAND FOR GOODS
Because of Expected Revision of the Tariff—
■ Demand for Bessemer Pig Holds
the Price Up-1-FaiSures.
New York, March 5.—R. G. Dun & Co.
will say tomorrow In their weekly re
view of trade: The slow and gradual im
provement observed for sometime has
continued during the past week and
without material check. There Is a bet
ter demand for most products on the
whole, with continuance of speculative
buying In some, notably wool, because of
expected duties. Meanwhile, money
markets continue as easy and undisturb
ed as If there had never had been anxiety
about the gold reserve, and fairly large
sales of stocks on London account during
the week, possibly because of interna
tional anxieties, have made no percepti
ble difference in American markets. Cot
ton has declined an eighth, and with
good reason, for although receipts from
plantations fall, the decrease Is not great
er than the decrease in consumption, ow
ing to stoppage of mills. As there Is
comparatively little cotton available In
the country, the market iB a very conve
nient one for speculators to manipulate.
While many of the_mllls have stopped
production of cotton" goods for a time,
the general outlook is on the whole un
changed and the demand for goods does
not Improve, while cloths are a shaca
lower. The demand for wool has dimin
ished, though only for a little, and sales
are quite a third more than the full for
consumption of all mills if all were at
work, but the speculative buying con
tinues.
Aitnougn some mills nave gone into
operation, the course of the market has
not favored great activity, but it may he
said that for goods of the highest grades
there is a better demand than hereto
fore.
The boot and shoe industry can reckon
a good many more shops at work, and
shipments have been as large for the
past four weeks as In any previous year.
The market for materials has not
changed to any important extent.
While the demand for Bessemer pig has
sustained the recent advance to $10.75 per
ton at Pittsburg, and grey forge is still
quoted at $9.40 there and there is also
less cutting of prices to get more business
in finished products, the general range of
prices still oontlnues very low. Wire
nails have been advanced by heavy buy
ing to $1.40 per keg, without change In
cut nails, which are dull, and there is
less evidence of eastern mills selling rails
below $20, except for export, some sales
of that character having been made at
$18.00. Western makers are said to be
firm at $21.00 per ton. But the demands
of the most Important railways have been
supplied for the present, the consumeflil
of billets are not in the market Just nrtw
and with somewhat larger production tit
pig Iron it may be doubted whether out
side of rails the demand for finished pro
ducts equals the capacity of works.
Failures for the week have been 246
in the United States against 285 last year
and 59 in Canada against 68 last year.
BRADPTREFT'S REPORT.
'New York. March 5.—Bradstreet's will
say tomorrow: The new administration,
the certainty of an extra session of con
gress within a fortnight and the promise
of a new tariff at an early day which
shall provide adequate revenue and pro
tection, have done much to stimulate a
better feeling 1n trade circles and in
crease confidence in the near approach
of Improvement in business.
Total clearings at seventy-four cities
for February aggregated $3,668,716,285, a
decrease of 17.8 per cent, from the Janu
ary total and 10.2 percent, from that for
February a year ago.
The merchandise movement is equal
to expectations.
At Chicago and St. Louis there Is a
marked Increase in the volume of pur
chases from Jobbers, both by interior
merchants in person and by mail orders,
yet it is probable that the total trade at
neither city equals that at a correspond
ing period a year ago.
The stock market was raided by the
bears on the anti-trust feature of the
president’s inaugural address. London
has been weak and sold stocks for the
past two days on the unfavorable east
ern political outlook. The coal stocks
have been weak on publications unfavor
able to the Jersey Central. In spite of
its irregularity the market has a very
strong tone, the sustaining feature be
ing the refunding plan announced by
the Lake Shore company in conjunction
with a bankers’ syndicate.
There were 262 business failures
throughout the United States this week,
compared with 268 last week and 270 in
the week a year ago.
THE NEW TORPEDO BOATS
Receive Their Christian Names from Sec
retary of the Navy, Hilliary A.
Herbert.
Washington, D. C„ March 5.—Secretary
Herbert today Issued an order naming
the new torpedo boats as follows:
Number 11—Farragut.
Number 6—Porter.
Number 7—Dupont.
Number 9—Dahigren.
Number 10—T. A. Craven.
The order changes to Porter the name
of torpedo boat No. 6, which a few weeks
ago had been christened Farragut, In or
d-r that No. 11, which is a much larger
boat, and which Is expected to make
much greater speed may. be called after
the leading admiral. No. 10 Is named for
Tunis A. Craven, who was lost when
commanding the monitor Tecumseh in
Mobile bay and who, when the pilot told
him it was time to abandon the ship, re
plied: "After you. pilot." The pilot alone
lived to tell the story.
DEASK QUESTION.
Raleigh, N. C., March 6.—The North
Carolina railroad—lease question was
made a special order in the house of .Rep
resentatives today at 12 o'clock. At that
J»8’4r. those opposed to the lease raised
such a hpwl against considering the
grant substitute, with Representative
Cook In the chair temporarily, tljat t^e
enemies of the-bill were successful in ad
journing tip? bowse until 3.30 in the after
'nuftrf. At that'Session It was agreed to
consider the .matter tomorrow, at which
time the matter will either be disposed
of or the present tactics of those against
the lease to defer«ptlon will prevail and
let It go by ikitliut legislative action,
with the view af ^ringing suit with the
governor against the contract with the
North Carolina railroad.
WHAT GROVER DIO AND DIDN'T
Refused Three of the Great Ap
propriation Bills
BECAUSE OF OBJECTIONS
To Matter Contained in Them—Some Stupen*
dous Figures Indicated the Entire
List of Appropriations.
Washington, March 5.— Presfdent
Cleveland, as heretofore stated, refused
his assent to three of the jfreat appro
priation bills because of objection to mat
ters contained In them. The sundry
civil bill, carrying a total appropriation
of $53,030,000, contained river and harbor
Improvement items to the amount of
nearly eighteen million. These Mr. Cleve
land disapproved In pursuance of his
policy towards this class of public works.
An item was inserted by the senate in the
Indian appropriation bill relating to the
patenting of claims for land containing
gilsonlte (a substance somewhat resem
bling rubber) and this item, it is under
stood, was the principal ground of ob
jection to executive approval. The basis
of opposition to the agricultural bill is
supposed to have been the president's
support of the policy of the secretary of
agriculture upon the matter of distribut
ing seeds. A fourth bill, the general de
ficiency, failed to become a law because
the senate and house could not agree as
to the payment of certain claims, adju
dicated upon and decided agaiisst the
United States by the court of claims, pro
vision for which was made by the sen
ate. As it passed the house the bill car
ried a total of $8,442,027, which was in
creased in the senate to $11,393,940.
The several appropriation bills for the
fiscal year 1897 and 1898 as they were sent
to the presidrnt, carried the following
ioiuis:
Agricultural, $3,182,902.
Army, $23,129,344.
Diplomatic and consular, $1,695,308.
District of Columbia, $6,187,591.
Fortifications, $9,517,141.
Indian, $7,670,220.
Legislative, executive and Judicial, $21,
690.766.
Military academy, $479,572.
Naval, $33,128,234.
Pension, $141,263,880.
Postoffice, $95,665,338.
Sundry civil, $53,030,000.
Deficiency, (for navy and courts) $884,
885.
Total, $397,525,186.
Permanent annual appropriation, $120,
078,220.
Grand total, $517,603,406.
Adding to this $8,442,406, general defi
ciency bill (which was the sum voted by
the house) and $500,000 for miscellaneous
objects, the total appropriations for 1898
■would be $526,545,434, against $516,845,194
for 1897.
How to dispose of the four appropria
tion bills which failed to become laws
is a subject of much discussion about thd
capita). LL was said today -ttaat-in- order
to avSid the necessity for appointing ajf)
the committees of the new congress, (h,
if possible, prevent reorganizing these
commlttjijpfc committees which usually
have charge of the bills that failed,
namely, the committee on appropriations,
on agrieufture and on Indian affairs, the
bills will be introduced as they were com
pleted by the last congress and an ef
fort will be made to pass them under a
suspension of the rules. Speaker Reed
has announced that he has no policy to
urge in 1‘egard to organization for the
special session, but there Isa widespread
feeling among republicans that it would
be a good thing to confine action by the
house In the matter of hew legislation
to the consideration of the tariff hill. Rut
there would be difficulty, it is apprehend
ed, in getting the senate to follow that
example.
The “pocketed" 'bills of the session of
congress ending yesterday which failed
to become law because not signed by the
president (exclusive of the four great ap
propriation bills elsewhere mentioned)
were forty-five in number, of which six
teen were private pension and relief,
tweleve bills to correct military records
of individuals and four were local legis
lation, District of Columbia.
The measures of general Importance
that reached the president and failed
were the sundry civil, agricultural and
Indian appropriation apd the deficiency,
but Pot reaching the white house at all,
the joint resolution to prevent the Intro
duction and spread of contagious dis
eases in the United States, the act setting
apart certain lands in the state of Wash
ington now kno-wp as Pacific forest re
serve a-s publio park, to be known as
Washington National Park; the act to
permit the right-of-way through the pub
lic lands for tram roads, canals, etc.; the
act to repeal the 'timber culture laws, the
act In regard to the delivery of letters In
towns under certain circumstances; the
act to require patents to be issued to
land settled under the act to provide for
settlement of the peninsular of Florida;
the act to simplify the system of making
sales in the subsequent department of
the army, and the act authorizing the
Galveston and Great Northern Railroad
company to construct a railroad through
Indian Territory.
GROVER HEARD FROM.
Norfolk, Va.. March 5.—Ex-President
Cleveland, accompanied by Captain Ro
bley Evans, secretary of the light house
board, and Captain Lamberton, in charge
of the light house district, arrived here
on the light house tender Maple at 8
o'clock this morning from Washington.
The party was at once transferred to the
light house tender Violet and proceeded
via canal to Hatteras inlet where they
will spend a few days shooting, after
which Mr. Cleveland will probably Join
Mr. E. C. Benedict aboard his yacht
Oneida for a cruise In the Florida waters.
REPUBLICAN CAUCUS
To Nominate Officers for the Fifty-fifth
Congress Called.
Washington, March 5.—The following
call for a caucus of republican mem/bers
of the next house of representatives was
Issued today:
Washington. March 5, 1897.
Notice Is hereby given to the republi
can members of t'he Fifty-fifth congress
that a caucus will be held in the house
of representatives at 8 o’clock Saturday
evening, March 13, 1897. for the purpose
of nominating candidates for officers of
the ensuing congress, and for transaction
of such other business as may properly
oome before the caucus.
C H. GROSVENOR, Chm.
W. B. HOOKER, Secy.
WORST IN YEARS.
Worcester, Mass., March 6.—The worst
fire seen here in years began this morn
ing shortly after 3 o’clock and destroyed
the Day building, fronting on Main Street,
with an ell on Walnut streets and the
Gouding block, between the Day building
and Sunbury streets, with a logs of from
$400,000 to $500,000. The flames were prac
tically kept within these limits and there
is no further danger of spread, though
Jansen's Turkish bath on Sudbury street
and the Flagg block, at the corner of
Main and Sudbury caught fire several
times and were considerably damaged.
The Five Cents Savings bank building,
which was threatened was saved.
FIRE AT NORFOLK.
Norfolk, Va, March 5.— Fire this af
ternoon broke out in the lumber sheds
of the South Norfolk Lumber company,
three miles from this city, and destroyed
2,225,000 f-et of seasoned pine timber, the
property of the Courtiand Lumber com
pany, besides valuable machinery and
wharves. The lumber was valued at
$25,000, insurance $18,000. The loss from
the destruction of machinery and
wharves cannot be 1 arned owing to the
atisence of the proprietor of the South
Norfolk company, but will probably
reach $25,000 or more.
BIG ELEVATOR BURNED.
Peoria, 111., March 5.—Union elevator
No. 2. with a capacity of 1.000,000 bush
els of grain, burned to the ground late
last night, incurring a loss of $500,000.
The building was owned by the Chicago.
Burlington and Quincy railroad, and all
of the grain firms of the city had grain
stored in it. The building contained 900,
000 bushels of wheat, oats and corn, fully
covered by Insurance. No accurate es
timate could be obtained of the loss or
Insurance. The elevator was the largest
in this part of the" country, being 130
feet high and 280 feet long.
THE EDITOR WINS.
Knoxville, Tenn., March 6.—Editor
Charles H. Slack, of the Bristol Courier,
was on trial today In the federal court
charged with sending obscene matter
through the malls in violation of the pos
tal laws. The grand jury reported a
true bill, but the trial jury, after hearing
evidence from the defendant, rendered a
verdict of “not guilty.” The editorial
causing the true bill and indictment was
a counter attack on the editor of a relig
ious journal and was decidedly objec
tionable In some of Its expressions.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 5.—Weather very
warm and a fast track marked today’s
sport. The attendance was 4.000, and as
only two favorites won, the bookmakera
had the best of the day.
First Race—Selling, six furlongs. Sen
ator Morrell, 107 (Caywood), 9 to 5. won;
R. Q. Ban stoond, Rouble third. Time,
1:15%.
Second Race-Selling, one mile. Harry
S. , 96 fPowers), 8 to 5. won; Moralist sec
ond, Boarder third. Time, 1:44%.
Third Race—Seven furlongs, selling.
Samson, 106 (C. Reiff), 5 to 1, won; Sky
Blue seoond1, Booze third, ITime, 1:31.
Fourth Raee-LHandicap, one mile.
Judge Steadman, 94 (Dorsey) 7 to 2, won;
Squire G. second, Rosm&r third. Time,
1:42%.
Fifth Race—One mile. Gioja, 104 (Lend
man), 60 to 1, won; Gomez second. Stach
elberg third. Time, 1:45%.
Sixth Race—Selling, seven furlongs.
Alva, 105 (Songer), 3 to 1, won. Tommy
Rutter second, Trixie third. Time, 1:31.
■FRISCO RESULTS.
San Francisco, March 5— Raining;
track muddy. Five favorites won.
First Race—Six furlongs. Lizzie H.,
s»' jwrwjfisr* *"••
Second Race—Seven furlongs, selling.
San Marco, 108 (Hennessy), 9 to 2, won;
Doctor O.. second; Tar and Tartar, third.
Time, 1:32%.
Third Race—Six furlongs. Cash Day,
110 (Shields), 9 to 10, won; Applause, sec
ond; Tuxedo, third. Time, 1:16%.
Fourth Race—One and one-half miles.
Argentina, 105 (H. Martin), 13 to 10, won;
Morte Fonse, second; Lobengula, third.
Time, 2:41%.
Fifth Race—Seven furlongs. Gutta
109 (H. Martin), 16 to 5, won; Frank K.,
second; Mobalaska, third. Time, 1:31.
Sixth Race—One mile, selling. Stenter,
106 (T. Sloan), 9 to 10. won; Basqult, sec
ond; George Palmer, third. Time. 1:45%.
Seventh Race—Five furlongs. Mont
gomery, 109 (Slaughter), 20 to 1, won; Ye
men, second; Fly, third. Time, 1:02%.
SMALL BROOKLYN BLAZE.
New York, March 5.—The buildings No.
631 and 633 Myrtle avenue, Brooklyn, oc
cupied by Gould & Morgan, dealers In
dry goods, were damaged by tire this af
ternoon. The firm carried a stock valued
at $75,000. The loss cannot yet be accur
ately estimated, but It is not expected
to exceed $15,000.
—
GOES OUT OF BUSINESS.
Norfolk, Va„ March 5.—The Norfolk
Trust company made an assignment to
day to Thomas H Wilcox, for the benefit
of Its depositors. This company has been
gradually winding up its affairs for sev
eral years and this step was taken to
wind up Its business. Its debts are small,
not more than $15,000, and its assets be
lieved to be more than sufficient to pay
dollar for dollar. Its close does not af
fect the Norfolk banks at all.
WITHOUT FOUNDATION.
Madrid, March 5.—Premier Canovas
held a conference with the flarllst lead
ers yesterday and received from them
absolute denials of reports that they
were preparing for an armed movement
in favor of the pretensions of Don Carlos.
Any such reports, they assured the pre
mier, were positively without foundation.
HE DIED GAME.
Colin Daughdrill Pays the Penalty of His
Crime On the Scaffold at Gadsden—
Advice to His Brother,
Gadsden, ‘March 5.—Colin Daughdrill
was hanged here today In the county Jail
yard for the crime elf murder, a Jury hav
ing adjudged him guiliy of killing J, I.
Bates, a traveling man, full particulars
of which have appeared In your col
umns. The trap was sprung at 1 o’clock
and the body fell five feet, the victim’s
neck being broken by 'the fall. He was
pronounced dead In seven minutes.
Daughdrill died game, his last advice to
his brother, John, being, "Make a man
of yourself, John."
ALL QUIET IN HAVANA.
Gen. Lee Wires Olney of a Change of
Attitude of the Spaniards.
Washington, D. C., March 5.—Secretary
Olney has just received the following
cafol -gram from Consul-General Lee at
Havana:
"All quirt. No excitement now. I hope
to secure prompt trial of all Americans
Imprisoned. Those found Innocent to be
released and those guilty to be sent out
of the island.”
This despatch, which oame this after
noon In cipher, Indicates a most Import
ant change oi attitude on the part of
the military authorities in Cuba under
orders from Madrid, as guilty Americans
on conviction aire to be expelled from th~
lsalnd. Instead of being otherflse pun
ished, i: _ ,
ITALY WANTS SAlISfACTION
From the Porte for a Shot
Fired at
ONE OfcO MAIL STEAMERS
mg 7 -
Albaniar^Take a Hand in the War Upon
•r Turkey.
_
GRfCE IN 1 HE FIGHT TO STAY
'-V _
And Would Rather Be Totally Annihilated
than Retrace the Steps Already Taken
—Massing Troops for the Front
—Her Fleet to Act.
Constantinople, March 6.—-The Italian
ambassador has made a formal demand
upon the parte for satisfaction for the
firing of a shot across the bows of an
Italian mail steamer on Tuesday even
ing while the vessel was passing through
the Dardanelles.
Evidence was given today of the feel
ing that has been created in Albania by
Greece’s deliance of the powers. A
strong force of Albanians who were all
prepared for active hostilities, surround
ed, at El Bas.-an, two battalions of Turk
ish reserves, who were marching to the
Greek frontier. The reserves were dis
armed by their captors, who appropriat
ed to themselves the captured rifles and
war material carried by the reserves.
TO RELIEVE THE TURKS.
Canea, Crete. March 5.—The British con
sul at this place has started for Sellno
to endeavor to relieve the Turks who are
besieged there by Cretan, Insurgents.
IN THE FIGHT TO STAY.
Paris, March 5.—The Figaro publishes
a report of an interview with M. de Lay
annis, prime minister of Greece, had hy
a correspondent of that paper in Athens.
The Greek premier is quoted as saying
that the Greek troops would not under
any circumstances be withdrawn from
Crete, They were there to stay, he de
clared, and in addition to that the tem
per of the people of Greece would com
pel the government to invade Turkey.
Greece, M. de Layannle said, merely asks
for a plebiscite to show that the Inhabi
tants of the island of Crete are over
whelmingly in favor of Union with the
Greek kingdom. Anyway, tie declared,
Greece would prefer to disappear from
the map of Europe rather than draw
back from the position she has taken.
THE GREEK FLEET TO ACT. ^
Athens, March 5.—The cabinet council
which met last evening after Premier
de Layannls Interview with King George,
sat until 1 o’clock this morning. It Is re
ported that as a result of the delibera
tions of the ministers several Important .
reached. A'-cstd’ng to the
reporf the cabinet determined upon the
action of the Greek fleet on the coast of
Macedonia, with a view to aiding mobili
zation of the Macedonian forces, tho
guarding of Macedonian towns devolving
upon the Gendarmerie and depot battal
ions. It is estimated that Greece will
soon have over 100,000 men under arms.
Including reserves. The Greek Ironclad,
Spezla and Tzara have sailed from Pi
raeus under sealed orders. <
FORTY THOUSAND TROOPS.
London, March 5.—The Greek consul
here has received a telegram from Athens
stating that forty thousand Greek troops
have been called out and are to be dis
patched to the Turkish frontier, with the
least possible delay.
WHAfDiD IT MEAN?
_
Was the Neglect to Provide Seats In the
Senate for the Cabinet Inten
tional or Purely Acci
- i, Rental? .;!
Washington, D. C., March B.—The
cause of Secretary Olney’s conspicuous
non-participation In any of the Inaugural
ceremonies Is explained as follows:
The members of the cabinet In discuss
ing at the cabinet meeting Inst Tuesday
the parts assigned to them In the Inau
gural prooeedlngs found no provision In
the programme for their seats In senate
chamber or on the stand In front of the.
capitol. Secretary Thurlier at once com
municated with Senator Sherman,-chair
man of the arrangements committee, who
replied ‘The heads of the departments”
had been provided for on the stand, but
not In the senate. The programme was
again consulted and this was found to be
true, but they were In the rear of the
members of the house of representatives,
whereupon Secretary Olney declared he j
would not go to the capitol at all. All the
members of the cabinet agreed upon this
action, but when Mr. McKinley came to.
the White House yesterday and started
with Mr. Cleveland he notioed that the
cabinet officers were not going to ac
company the parade and on inquiry)
learned the reason. Senator Sherman,
who was present, immediately offered to
give front seats to the secretaries on tho
floor of the senate and Mr. Cleveland's
advisers consented to attend tho oere- l
monies. None of them, however, went .
on the stand as "heads of departments”
•to listen to the inaugural, but hurried off
to Secretary Lamont's house to bid Mrs.
Cleveland good bye.
Secretary Olney did not get Mr. Mc
Kinley's verbal invitation to go to the
capitol, because he was not al the White
House with his colleagues in the meeting, I
being detained at the state department
all day on Important matters. He went,
however, to the ball tn the evening, pre
pared to escort Mrs. McKinley according
to the adopted programme, but this was
discouraged at the last moment by Mrs.
McKinley’s weak condition, compelling
her to have other assistance.
AN ALiAJl ASJIAN IN LUCK.
'Washington, -tManch 5.—W. L. Cham
bers, of Alabama, who was formerly,
United State* ■mnA commissioner of Sa
moa, has been Agreed upon by Great
Britain, Germany and tbe United States
as chief justice of Samoa, to succeed
Judge Ide, who 13 also an American.
The king of Samoa makes the appoint
ment, and will undoubtedly confirm ths
selection.
A TEMPORARY RECEIVER.
Atlanta, Ga., March S.^'harles Bla
lock was today appointed T^jpporary re
ceiver of the Manufacturers' Mutual In
surance company. The managers say)
that the company is solvent, but Its
monc-y Is tied up In the Union Savings
hank which was placed In a receiver’s
hands last month. ,,BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, MARCH 7, 1897.-TWELVE PAGES. - NUMBER 42
GOV. JOSEPFr JOHNSTON
Expresses His Opinion of the
State Tax Commission.
OBJECTION TO THE LAW
Is Based, He Says, Upon a Misconception of
Its Text—No Reflection Upon
Tax Assessors.
Montgomery, March 6.—(Special.)—The
state tax commissioner, Judge Wood,
will soon complete the appointment of
county commissioners and the law will
be in full operation.
The governor h'as taken and is taking
great interest 1n the organization of this
new branch of the revenue department
of the state.
It is well known that Governor John
ston approved the bill before Us intro
duction and lent his influence to its pass
age, believing it to be the best remedy
any one has yet suggested for the ine
qualities of taxation which everybody ad
mitsJind deplores. He has been too busy
since the general assembly adjourned for
any public discussions on any subject but
today the governor gave to your corres
pondent the following interview:
“The objection to the tax commission
law," said the governor, “is based large
ly u. on a misconception of its provisions
and purposes. The question that con
fronted the general assembly was how
to meet a deficit, admitted by all, and
~ variously estimated at from $225,00 to over
$500,000." There were but two ways to
meet this deficit and secure a larger reve
nue to the state that would enable us
to improve our public schools. One was
by increasing the rate of taxation and
compelling those who are now- bearing
the burdens of government to contribute
more largely, and the other was to re
quire those who have been evading just
and fair taxation to contribute their
share. The legislature chose the latter
plan, and I think chose wisely.
“To say that this act reflects upon the
assessors is absurd, for it is well know-n
that the census of 1890 show-s the taxa
ble property of the state amounted to
more than $623,000,000, whereas the as
sessments for taxation amount to* only
$260,000,000.
“If there is a single honest tax payer
In the state who objects to this law be
cause it will compel his neighbor, w-ho
has been evading or escaping fair taxa
tion, to do his duty, I have not yet found
him. The law will not touch a single man
In Alabama who is returning his property
at 75 per cent of its real value; it will
reach those who. are making no return at
all or returning their property at one
fourth or one-half of its value. It is In
tended to reach them, and so far as I
can direct or control its operations It
will compel every citizen and corpora
tion to bear his fair and just share of the
public burden.
"It has been represented that the law
added a penalty of 20 per cent, on all
taxes not paid by the first of March.
"There is no such provision.
“It has also been represented that the
county commissioner could arbitrarily
raise a man' taxes, and from his decision
there was no appeal.
“There is no such provision. The
truth is, 1f the commissioner believes
that any man or corporation has not fair
ly been assessed, he can make the as
sessment and submit it to the assessor
or to the commissioner’s court. The tax
payer has notice of this, and the oppor
tunity to appear before the commission
er’s court and to show that his valuation
should not be increased, and the com
missioner’s court or court of county rev
enue passes upon it and settles the ques
tion and fixes the value, and if the tax
payer is not satisfied with the judgment
of that court he may appeal to the cir
cuit court. Could any fairer hearing be
desited bv an homst man?
“Then, again, the tax commissioner
cannot himself finally assess any man.
•He acts through and by the county as
sessor, and subject, as stated, to the re
vision of the commissioner’s court. t
“The commissioner has exactly the
power that the assessors have had for
years In this state. He has no power
that the assessor has not. He cannot open
a door that Is not wide open to the as
sessor, nor make an assessment that the
assessor cannot make. He cannot ask a
question nor exact an oath of a tax-payer
that cannot be asked or exacted by the
assessor. His work is supplementary
and in aid of the assessor. The theory of
the act is that the commissioners will
have more time to search for escapes
end ascertain undervaluations than the
assessor, who has his time fully occu
pied in meeting all the tax-payers. All
the officials under this act are a part of
the revenue department, and report to
the auditor. They are allowed no com
pensation except a commission of 10 per
cent, on the taxes actually brought into
the treasury by their labor and research
and compensation for other services act
ually rendered. They do not take any
money out of Che treasury, but hidng it
In.
"When this bill -was passed creating
these sixty-seven offices (not appointed
by the governor, and that are no charge
upon the treasury, state or county) an
other was passed repealing a law that au
thorized the governor to appoint sixty
six men as equalizers, and the county
commissioners to appoint sixty-six more,
all of whom drew their pay out of the
public treasuries.
"If the assessors do their duty, if they
permit no property to escape, if they see
that fair assessments are made, then
•there will be no work and no pay for the
commissioner. It is a fact that in one
city of the state over $500,000 of real es
tate was added to the assessment that
had entirely escaped assessment by the
assessor, the city having employed an
agent to review the work of the asses
sor. Should not this property have borne
its fair share of the public burden? The
tax commission bill does for the state
■what that special agent did for that city.
"It is legalized robbery to compel one
man to pay on the full value of all his
property and permit his neighbor to es
cape.
"This is no new evil. My predecessors
were confronted with the same diffi
culties and in his biennial message to
the legislature In 1894 Hon. Thomas G.
Jones, then governor of the state, said:
“ 'It will not be denied that the value of
property jvj)ich is assessed and that which
escape® taxation, is at least twice as
great as the values shown by our assess
ments. If all this property could be fair
ly assessed, the present rate of taxation
• would more than suffice for our wants;
but it seems idle to expect this, or any
near approach to It. In the light of the
repeated failures of legislative efforts,
during the pash Seventy-five yea.rs, to
Cufe the admitted evils of escapes from
taxation and unfair and discriminative
values. It Is certain that just equaliza
tion of the burdens of taxation cannot
be. effected, without a radical departure
from old methods, one of the most im
portant of which is to change the mode
of selecting tax assessors’
And Governor Johnston then proceeded
to argue the necessity of appointing ail
the assessors.
"In 1S98, Governor Oates said if the as
sessors were ‘appointed Instead of elect
ed by popular vote there would be quite
an Improvement in the assessments.’ If
I remember correctly there was no clamor
then that this was a reflection on the as
sessors.
'If this evil of escapes and undervalu
ation has existed for seventy-five years,
as mated by Gov. Jones, was It not time
to attempt to correct It. and was not the
effort to correct it by this bill more con
servative than to empower the governor
to appoint sixty-six assessors? Is an offi
cial more distasteful to the people be
cause called a commissioner rather than
assessor? Is it more reprehensible to cre
ate sixty-six officers who get pay for
actual money brought Into the treasury
or to have the appointment of sixty-six
assessors given directly to the governor?
"Doubtless experience will show us that
the law is not perfect, but is very certain
that it will increase the revenue of the
state and subject to taxation a consider
able amount of property that has been
escaping for many years. No clamor
against the law will now modify a single
provision. I expect, so far as I can. to
see that it is enforced according to Its let
ter and spirit, to the end that all prop
erty In the state, whether- land or money
or stocks or bonds, shall bear its equal
share of the burdens of taxation. It is
well known that it Is not the man of
moderate means, no-t the man who labors
with hi.- hand who has been escaping,
and. I shall do what I can to lighten
their burdens by compelling their more
fortunate neighbors who hr.ve failed to
do their duty to contribute their fair
share of the burden of taxation. As
usual, those who complain most are
those who have done the least.
"It is well known that I did approve
this law and favored Its enactment. I
have seen, nothing stated against It that
has changed my views. If it does not
bring in and subject to taxation a large
amount of property that has heretofore
escaped. If it does not succeed in doing
much to equalize the burdens of taxation,
if it is administered so as to oppress or
worry a single citizen of the state. I shal?
be disappointed. Rut I shall not relax
my efforts to reach the results it was in
tended to accomplish.”
IN A BAD FIX.
Boston, March 6.—IT-he grand jury to
day reported an indictment against Jos
eph A. Iasigi, Turkish consul general at
Boston. He Is charged with the em
bezzlement of over $100,000.
| DESTRUCirCLiDBURST
Visits Prattville, Cutting a Wide
Swath.
*
—
BRIDGES SWEPT AWAY
And Houses Wrecked by the Tremendous
Downpour—List of Sufferers—Rail
way Travel Cut Off.
Prattville, March C.—(Special.)—Pratt
ville was the scene cf a destructive cloud
burst this morning between 2 to 4 o'clock.
Such a cloudburst was never seen here
before. Every bridge and crossing in
the town, except the large ones over
Autaugu creek, was washed away, and
the streets and sidewalks in places arc
washed out six to ten feet deep. The
damage is not less than $1,500 to the
town.
D. If. Rawlinson's general merchandise
house is a complete wreck and great dam
age was done to the goods. Loss not less
than $2,000.
Fisher Bro’. damage to house and
goods is $400.
Col. Mac A. Smith's office and the
best law library In the county, is a com
plete wreck. Loss about $1,200.
The cotton mills company sustains a
loss to their property of not less than
$500. The cotton mills company may
have some Insurance, but none of the
other parties have.
The Louisville and Nashville Tailroad
suffers too. There will*be no trains from
here to Montgomery today.
NEWS FROM CUBA.
Band of Patriots Attack the Town of
Guinea, Havana Province; Also
Las Cauas, Pilnar del Rio
Province.
Havana, (Via Key West, Fla.) March 6.
—On the fourth instant about 9 o’clock
p. m. a band of Cuban patriots made an
expedition into the important town of
Quines, Havana province, and with heavy
discharges of musketry, forced the garri
son to retreat in their barracks and the
fonts surrounding the town. After tak
ing possession of the same, they overran
the town, setting fire to three houses in
Real Street, three in Vides street and
nine in Tacon street, sacking many others
in General Du ice street. After accom
plishing their work they quietly left the
town at 3 a. m. The losses sustained by
the Spaniards are as follows:
Military Commander Tirade, wounded;
Lieutenant Pendas, killed; a sergeant and
a volunteer tvounded. Among the resi
dents a cattleman was found machetted,
another was found dead in the burning
ruins of the stores, and another was killed
by a bullet wound and three were wound
ed. It is said that the Cubans left three
dead in the streets. In order to appreci
ate the importance of the deed it is nec
essary to know that Guinea has a popula
tion of about 16,000 souls and the garri
son exceeds 2,000.
Yesterday the parties of Federice Num
ez and Emille Loran, 200 men strong,
surprised seventy laboroers of the sugar
estate near Muriel, Pinar del Rio prov
ince, in the act of cutting cane. All of
them were held as prisoners for a couple
of hours and finally released, after de
priving them of all thein clothing.
About 9 p. m., on the 2d inst., a party
of rebels entered the town of Las Canas,
Pinar del Rio province, looting a house
owned by Antonio Laret, burning at their
departure thirty-one huts, and many
stores werp also sacked. The military
commander, with forty men of the gar
rison and a section of volunteers, re
pulsed the insurgents, forcing them to
abandon the town. The rebels, in their
retreat, fired a few shots at the troops,
but no harm was done.
deploRable c Sedition.
Ishpeming, Mich., March 6.—The con
dition of the striking miners at Norway
is desperate. Two hundred families are
on the verge of starvation. The miners
at Aragon struck two months ago. They
have asked to be taken back at the old
rate, but have been refused. The miners'
union and local charities are unable to
oope with the situation.
GREECE SERENE
While the Powers Are In Great Ex
citement.
GRIM WAR IS NOW INEVITABLE
And the Plucky Little Kingdom Smiles While Ter
ror Holds Full Sway
AROUND AND ABOUT THE CONTINENT
France Joins England, While Germany Sides With
Russia and the Petty Kingdoms Fall
Into Line With Greece.
London, March 6.—(Copyright by the
Sun Printing and Publishing Associa
tion.)—Thefe is no doubt that Europe is
badly frightened. The present war scare
Is the worst she has experienced since
twenty-five years ago. Every country
fears it isaibout to be dragged into a con
flict which will stain the sea and bathe
the contenent In blood. Everywhere,
except In Greece, the prospect is looked,
upon with dread, if not horror, and both
public and official minds are willing to
make great sacrifices in order to escape
the threatened calamity. Such is admit
ted as the situation at the present mo
ment, and it cannot fail to impress alien
observers as one of vast absurdity.
The whole continent is trembling in
fear of a disaster which can only be In
voked by its o.vn voluntary act. The
powers of Europe are shrieking denun
ciations of Greece because that country Is
going to throw Into the arena a golden
apple which they cannot refrain from
fighting tooth and toe nail to possess
themselves of. That Is precisely what Is
happening.
If Greece, driven to It by the powers,
declares war against Turkey tomorrow
they must all Join in the scramble for
the Ottoman prize, and Greece, forsooth,
will be to blame because they are unable
to restrain themselves. There is for
tunately a large section of public opinion
In this country and in France and Italy
also which puts the responsibility where
it belongs. This section of public opin
ion is accused by Lord Salisbury's sup
porters of Imperilling the peace of Eu
rope by encouraging the Greeks. It lr
really this section of the public in the
three countries named which Is going t-■
prevent war when the crisis roaches its
climax. The supporters of Greece in
England, France and Italy and Germany
as well, will not consent to be dragged
into a war which has only a piece nf the
Ottoman empire for a prize. The lib ra1
party in this country, from Sir William
Vernon Harcourt down, have been de
claring their emphatic protest this week
against Lord Salisbury anil Balfour’s
repeated assertion that a great war Is in
evitable if the eastern question is forced
to a settlement. That is the question
that is. being asked.in this country by
those who refused to be stamped by the
government alarmists’ warning. It is a
question which many of the supporters
of Lord Salisbury are also asking, and it
is this idea which prevents the existing
war scare from developing into a panic.
It should be pointed out again that the
gloomy forebodings which are demoral
izing the entire world are cultivated by
the governments of the six great powers.
In no other way could they hold public
opinion in check and gain its unwilling
consent to the policy which has been
adopted towards Greece "In the Interests
of peace.” As a matter of fact the situ
ation is not really so desperate as is gen
erally believed. I do not deny that
there is danger of war and that things
will probably become worse before they
improve. Greece will undoubtedly refuse
to obey the ultimatum of the powers.
Many believe that before replying and,
probably within a few hours she will
realize her position in Crete by declaring
war against Turkey. It does not follow
that the six powers, If they fall to pre
vent that war will rortnwitn spring at
each others’ throats. If they do It will be
their own affairs and the responsibility
will also be theirs.
Among the wise things which Lord
Salisbury said at the dinner to Ambassa
dor Bayard Tuesday was an allusion to
the fact that public opinion was rapidly
becoming stronger and more dominant In
constitutional countries. He might have
added that there were never before such
developments In this great force as those
now In progress In this country and Its
near neighbors. I have said that there
Is no war feeling In England. I must
modify this by saying that there proba
bly will be within the next few days. It
will be declared against Germany, and
it may easily grow into dangerous pro
portions. The anti-German sentiment In
England, It Is hardly an exaggeration to
say, Is as strong as It Is In France. It
has been growing for years. It Is based
chiefly upon commercial rivalries, and It
almost reached Its culmination in the
Transvall crisis a year ago. It has now
been added to by two facts which have
Just been learned that the Joint note to
Greece was changed at the last moment
from a. friendly tone to a threatening
ultimatum by the refusal of Emperon
William to otherwise remain In the con
cert. This spectacle of Lord Salisbury
and other rulers being led by the nose bj>
the German emperor Is Intensely exas
perating to the British people. Today
comes the news of the emperor's start
ling demand fon 150,000,000 with which
to build new warships. This, of course,
is directed solely against Great Britain,
and is already regarded In this country
as a counter-move In England’s equip
ment of the flying squadron a year ago.
There seems to be little expectation
that the reiohstag will honor the em
peror's demand or that the country will
honor It In the election which will prob
ably follow the relchstag’s refusal. En
glishmen, therefore, are all the more In
clined to take the emperor’s proposal as
a dlreqt affront. Public opinion in this
country would net tolerate any further
concessions from Lord Salisbury to the
Germaji emperor’s obduracy In order to
maintain the concert of the powers, nor.
Indeed, would that of France. Greek
sympathy In the latter country is be
ing greatly strengthened by the harsh
ness o# Emperor William’s attitude.
There is, Indeed, some probability that
Important political effects may arise
from the anti-German feeling, which Is
shared by the French and English people.
A common hatred sometimes makes
strong friendship. Nothing would be
more natural than that the growing in
^ _ _Jk.1_T-—•
timacy between Emperor William and
the czari should drive France Into co
operation with England. The suspicion
and reaction against the Russian alli
ance Is Increasing dally in France, and
in these days of rapidly moving events
political frlnedships In Europe may be
suddenly altered.
All these considerations have an Im
portant bearing on the situation in the
east, which, within a few hours, will
now reshape Itself. Today’s actual news
Is not important.
Henry Norman, of the London Chroni
cle, who is at Athens, telegraphs that
certain eastern powers, meaning appar
ently England and perhaps France and
Italy, are urging Greece in a friendly,
informal way, to negotiate with the pow
ers for the gradual withdrawal of the
Turkish and Greek troops from Crete,
thus saving the dignity and making the
ultimate union of Greece and Crete pos
sible. According to all accounts the un
bending obstinacy of the German em
peror would make even this arrange
ment impossible.
It is known that every effort Is being
made to induce King George to refrain
from declaring war against Turkey. If,
however, he Is determined to resist the
demand of the powers, as all accounts
agree, he will do, a declaration of war
would be his best possible move. The
powers would then be deprived of an
excuse for Interfering on the ground of
any violation of the International law
and as Greece Is an independent pow
er, there is no question of her right to
declare war. The embarrassment of the
powers would then be Immensely In
creased and It may safely be assumed
that public opinion In eastern Europe
and this country would prevent three,
(iit last, of the powers from actively sup
portlng Turkey In such” a struggle.
The porte lias obtained money some
where, not much to be cure, but, if re
port speaks truly, enough among other
things to pay some outstanding bills of
certain patriotic firms in Birmingham,
and to obtain renewed credit In that
quarter. Nobody seems to know whence
the money has come, but a good many
people would like to know. The effect
of ready cash is already apparent, too,
on the military movements in Mace
donia, which are now continuous and
orderly under the direction chiefly of
Austrian and Swiss officers. The sol
diers are most of them Anatolians, Arabs
and Arnaubos of good physique, and as
the arms and ammunition of the In
fantry and artillery are in good condi
tion, it may be taken for granted that
the men will give a good account of
themselves to any enemy they may have
to meet in the field. European officers
in the sultan's service declare confident
ly, that If war Is once commenced by
Greece nothing but the Intervention of
the powers will stop the Turks from en
tering Athens. That, too, is the opinion
generally held by military experts here
and in France and Germany. The Greek
soldiers must win at the outset, or they
will soon be overpowered. Others, how
ever, believe that Turkey’s boasted mili
tary power will prove as unreal as that
Of China in the recent war with Japan.
Certainly the forces of disintegration
have been dllllgently at work during the
past fifteen years throughout the Turk
lsh military and naval forces.
A report that Greece had arranged a
common plan of action with Servla and
Bulgaria has been current in many quar
ters, but It may be dismissed as untrue.
Up'to the present the Interests of thes
little powers In Macedonia are too con
flicting to be reconciled at short notice,
but there Is good reason to believe that
young King Alexander of Servla has
been In communication with Prince Fer
dinand of Bulgaria, with the object of
Arranging Joint action In certain eventu
alities and such action is unlikely to be
pleasant to Greece. There Is another fac
tor In the situation to which no one has
recently given thought, and that is Mon
tenegro. The doughty Prince Nicholas is
prepared at short notice from the czar to
go anywhere and to do anything. His
army Is not much to boast of as regards
numbers, but in personal material It has
no equal among the minor states of Eu
rope, and If war is to be the game Mon
tenegro will take a hand In It beyond
a shadow of a doubht.
Nothing so much impressed those who
were present at the Mansion House din
ner to Mr. Bayard as the speech and
personality of the prime minister. The
pressure of responsibility under which
Lord Salisbury is living In these ominous
days is something almost beyond con
ception. The burden has no visible ef
fect upon him. There were no signs of
weariness, care or even abstraction. In
his appearance or manner as he Joined
apparently without reserve in the fes
tivities of 'the evening. He had attended
a long cabinet council early in the day,
•pent several hours at the foreign office
and had Just come from the house of
lords where he had announced the gov
ernment’s Cretan policy In a detailed
speech, every word of which in Its effect
for peace or war required careful weigh
ing. Then he made a speech after the
dinner which was a gem In language,
thought and sentiment.
Colonel John Hay, who is believed to
be the coining American ambassador to
England, has already engaged for the
coming season the fine mansion., No. 5
Carlton House Terrace, which is the
town residence of the Earl of Caledonia.
It should be added In explanation of Col.
Hay’s foresight In securing quarters In
London In advance of hls actual appoint
ment as ambassador that It was a case
of genuine necessity. Had he waited
longer It would have been impossible for
him to find adequate accommodations for
the coming season for love or money.
JEFF DAVIS FIRST.
Little Rock, Ark., March 6.—Hon. W. J.
Bryan is announced to deliver an address
In this city next week and the local
democrats are making extraordinary
preparations for his reception. This
morning Representative Smith, of
Gross county, offered a resolution In the
house of representatives to temporarily
remove the picture of Jefferson Davis
from the wail of the legislative chamber
and hang in its place a portrait of Mr.
Bryan, painted by a local artist. The
reading of the resolution caused great
excitement and met vigorous protests.
During the trouble members kept up a
continual yelling "Never,” and "Not on
your life,” "Jeff Davis will not come
down.” The motion was finally laid on
the table, and the excitement subsided.
CARDS FOR TROOPS. I
Frankfort, Ky„ March 6.—Sheriff Plum-I
mer, of Campbell county, who 1st to hang?
Jackson and Welling March 20th, bit? \
asked Gov. Bradley for troops to surj ;
round the enclosure where the execution
is to take place. The law provides th^t
no moTe than fifty people can witness a
hanging and the Sheriff fears that a big
crowd will come over from Cincinnati
and tear down the enclosure in order to
see It.
WALLEN’S DEATH
At the St. Nicholas Hotel. New York
City, Was Sudden—Found Dead
In Bed.
New York, March 6.—Edward M. Wal
len, a prominent architect of New Deca
tur, Ala., was found dead in his room at
the St. Nicholas Hotel at noon today.
Heart disease is supposed to have been
the cause of death. Proprietor Robinson
of the St. Nicholas has telegraphed to
Mr. Wallen’s wife at New Decatur, ap
prising her of his sudden death. Wallen
.was between 40 and 45 years old. He
came to this city on Jan. 20 last and has
been at the St. Nicholas ever since. It
is said that he was one of the most prom
inent architects in the south, and that
he built nearly all of the large court
houses in, that part of the country.
It is understood that he came here to
dispose of a patent for filing court rec
ords. Mr. Robinson said he understood
Wallen refused an offer of $35,000 to sell
his patent a few days ago and that it was
his Intention to form a company with a
capital of $100,000.
AN UNPARALLELED STORM
From the Lakes to the Ten
nessee Line.
THE COUNTRY IS FLOODED
Barnes, Dwellings, Fences and Bridges Swept
Away—Railroad Trains Annulled—One
Casualty. Reported Only.
Chicago, March 6.—The. storm which
nr.ged throughout the middle west Thurs
day night stands unparalleled not only
for the-extent of territory over which it
ranged, but for the. amount of water
which it precipitated. At Cincinnati the
rainfall reported by the weather bureau
officials amounted to 5.38 Inches, and
floods are reported from almost every
telegraphic station from Pittsburg on the
east to Kansas City on the west, and
from the lake to the northern boundary
of Tennessee. In some instances the
wind reached the velocity of a hurricane,
and much damage to dwellings, barns,
fences, orchards and forestB has been re
ported from various points throughout
the district. Throughout southern Illi
nois, Indiana and Ohio the damage to
railroad property In the form of wash
outs, making traffic impossible, and In
wrecks, caused by softening of the road
beds, is immense.
A considerable loss to the people as
a whole will be caused by the washing
away of bridges which have been built
in the rural districts at a cost of mil
lions of dollars and which have been
totally destroyed in many cases.
Owing to the demoralization of rail
way traffic, the mails local to the del
luged districts have been greatly de
layed, greatly to the annoyance of busi
ness interests involved.
The estimates are that over $1,000,000
worth of property has been lost In the
vicinities of Cincinnati, Dayton, Indian
apolis and St. Louis.
Trains on both the Big Four and Bal
timore and Ohio Southwestern are water
bound, and many bridges and culverts
are washed out. There is a great deal
of uneasiness for the people living In tho
bottom lands.
iMascoulah, 111., reports the streets
flooded, and the postofflee and many
business houses in water knee d:ep. Much
damage resulted.
Olney, 111., reports the Fox river for
two miles west of there thirteen Inches
higher than ever known before. The
Peoria, Decatur and Evansville trestle
over the east fork has been washed out.
At Vandalia an Infant belonging to an
unknown family residing in the river
bottom was drowned during a terrific !
storm Thursday night.
TRAINS ANNULLED
On the Pennsylvania Railroad Out of
Louisville—L. & N. Tunnel Vaves In.
Louisville, Ky., March 6.—The Pennsyl
vania railroad annulled all trains north
and east today on account of the In
diana flood. The Baltimore and Ohio
Southwestern started a train for Cincin
nati at 10 o’clock this morning and will
try and get one to St. Louis tonight.
The Louisville, New Albany and Chicago
sent out a Chicago train via the Balti
more and Ohio Southwestern and Big
Four, which Is open all the way. It is
expected that all roads will be in good
shape by tomorrow morning. Cumber
land Gap tunnel of the Louisville and
Nashville, has caved In again. Passen
gers are being transferred.
i AT MONTGOMERY
The Wind Blew a Gale and Water Fell
In Torents, Also at Selma.
Montgomery, Ala., March 6.—There
was a heavy fall of rain In this vicinity
last night and this morning, the heaviest
known for years. The wind blew at one
time at the rate of twenty-six miles an
hour, and was almost a gale. The rp.ln
fall here for twenty-four hours, nearly
as much as in all the month of January.
'At Prattville there was ten Inches, and
the town and factory located there were
flooded. The latter shut down. At Sel
ma the rain fall reached 8.06, and at
many other places It was-about a* heavy.
The Prattville branch is the only road
upon which trains were stopped. No loss
of life Is reported, though there is much
damage to property. !
AN AWKWARD BEGINNING
HMi in the Programme at the
j? White House,
ftlEF JUSTICE FULLER
K£ _
d Secretary Gage Misunderstand the Ar
m
rangements for the Cabinet Swear
*4
S ing in Procedure.
I 5*
Washington* March 6.—All the mem
bers of the new cabinet except Mr. Gage
met in the cabinet room adjoining the
president’s office at 10:30 o’clock this
morning, when, according to arrange
ments, the chief Justice was expected to
administer the oath of office. Mr. Gage
had not understood this programme, nor
apparently had Chief Justice Fuller, who
had made an appointment to swear in
the new secretary of the treasury in the
treasury department at 11:15, and Mr.
Gage had Issued a number of invitations
to IllinolsianB to witness the ceremony.
The supreme court had also an engage
ment to call on the president in a body
at 11 o’clock to pay their respects and
this was the only part of the day’s pro
gramme that occurred strictly according
to schedule time. The confusion at the
white house was extraordinary all morn
ing, due ‘to the crowds of persons who
had in some way secured a card of In
troduction and to the numerous con
gressmen who appeared with constitu
ents who wished to see all the apart
ments and who in many instances suc
ceeded.
Secretary Porter’s office was overrun,
with callers and representatives, but he
denied himself to them, and remained
with the president in the cabinet room.
While the meeting of the president and
his advisers was continuing and every ef
fort being made to reach Chief Justice
Fuller to administer the oath, the su
preme court was suddenly announced a
few moments before 11 o'clock, and the
president hurried down stairs into the
blue parlor to greet them. After the
usual formalities of this reception, when
the chief justice learned that the cabinet
had been waiting for him, he suggested
for convenience that the ceremony
might well be performed at once In the
presence of the court, and this was
promptly acted upon.
The oath was administered to the sec
retary of state at 11:15, and to the others
In rapid succession in the following or
der:
Gen. Alger, Judge McKenna, ex-Gov.
Long, Mr. Bliss, Mr. Gray and Mr. Wil
son.
The ceremony was in the nature of a
private affair, but for all that and the
limited number that witnessed it, the
dalntv blue room was pretty well filled.
President McKinley was seemingly the
most interested spectator. With him
were 'Mr. Porter, his secretary, and Lieut.
Gilmore, of the regular army, who has
been assigned to duty as temparary aid
to the president. Mr. T. C. Bancre ft
Davis, the venerable reporter of the su
preme court, and 'Mr. Foust, the crier,
were also present.
When the president and the members
of the cabinet had assented to the sug
gestion of Chief Justice Fuller that the
oa’tti of office be administered at once to
Maj. McKinley’s official family It was as
certained that none of the dignified
Judges had brought a Bible with him.
Then a search was made for one around
the White House. An usher finally pro
duced the required volume, a tattered
copy used in settling disputes on script
ural phraseology between two argu
mentative employes of the White House
force. The distinguished party had
meanwhile proceeded from the cabinet
room through the private park of the
mansion to th"> rear or private stairway,
down which they walked slowly and with
dignity. The crowd* In the lobby, the
office corridor and on (lie public stairway
were thus avoided and a few of the un
fortunate throng that had been fortunate
enough to obtain admission knew of
what was going on behind the big doors,
that President Arthur had caused to be
erected between an interested public and
people who, behind that official posi
tion, did not Involve a total surrender of
privacy.
Justice Brown is a Michigan man. a
resident of Detroit, ami It was at the re
quest of General Alger, his f llow-towns
man, thal he swear In th new secretary
of war. The chief justice and Justice
Gray administered the oath to the other
m-mbers present.
At the conclusion of the ceremony th
members of the supreme court filed out
of the blue room to the puhlir lobby, the
tall and distinguished Justice Harlan
leading th way with th venerable Jus
tice Field kaning on his arm. The pres
ident and his new advisers went up stairs
to the cabinet room ami got their over
coats and hats and proceeded to tlv ir
respective departments to meet the offi
cials and employes of each.
Chief Justice Fuller and his fellow Ju
rists went over to the tr a-sury depart
ment and met Secretary Carlisle and Mr.
Gage, In the office of the secretary. There
the oath was administered to Mr. Gage
before a large number of officials and
clerks. ,
A brief Informal m ting of the n°w
cabinet was held prior to the swearing In
in the cabinet room. Nothing Import
ant was said or done. The door of the
cabinet room was left open while th
president and his advisers talked and
many of those waiting In the corridor
that serves as a waiting room were in
terested spectators of th- scene. Presi
dent McKinley walked around the cabi
net table chatting with each m-mb-r.
The first delegation that the president
saw after the cabinet Installation con
sisted of Adjutant General Howe, and
most of thos- who had been o:i Major
McKinley's staff while he was governor
of Ohio. They were accompanied by a
number of ladles. Then h- went to the
East room to shake hands with another
great crowd of visitors.
IT IS SENATOR CORBETT.
Not the Puglllrtlc Champion, But a Port
land, Oregon, Banker.
Salem. Oregon. March 6.—Governor
Lord today appointed ox-Senator W. H.
Corbett United States senator to fill the
vacancy caus'd by the failure of the
legislature to elect at the recent session.
Mr. Corbett represented Oregon In the
Unlt-d States senate from 1866 to 1872.
He Is vice-president of the First Na
tional Hank of Portland, Oregon, and Is
very pronounced in favor of the gold
standard. He came to Oregon more than
thirty-five years ago and for many years
has been engaged In the banking busi
ness. At the recent session of the legis
lature, while not openly a candidate he
was one of the choices of the opponents
of Senator Mitchell. He Is about 66 years
old. S nator Corbett left for Washington,
tonight.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1897. NUMBER 43
VISITORS OFF FDR HOME
The Total Inaugural Receipts
• Will Foot Up $5,000.
PLACE HUNTERS IN EARNEST
The Assistant Postmaster-General, Better
Known as the "Headsman,” Walks the
Plank Today—Other Assistants Remain
Washington, D. C., March 8.—Most of
the inauguration visitor!? have left Wash
ington for their homes as the limit of ex
cursion tickets expired today. Today
workmen Were busy replacing the file
cases in the pension hall where the bail
wafe held, so tbart the routine work of
the pension bureau may be resumed to
morrow morning.
The inaugural committee estimates
that the total receipts will foot up about
$5,000 over and above expenses. The sur
plus will probably be turned over to lo
cal charities as has half been done and
the guarantee fund will be returned to
the subscribers.
The hotels are still filled with politicians
and office-seekers and President McKin
ley and the new cabinet will have a busy
week of it.
Many congressmen who were re-elected
remain in the city und the new membets
will undoubtedly be here in full force
early in the week, preparatory for the
meeting of the fifty-fifth congress in ex
tra session on Monday next.
Place-hunting began in real earnest at
the White House today. Most of the
sight-seers have left town and the stran
gers remaining are after the plums that
the president has it in his power to dis
tribute. Friday and Saturday very few
eager applicants for positions said any
thing to Major'McKinley about their de
sire. Th.se two days were given up to
congratulation and compliment. This
morning, however, the place-seekers
came to the executive mansion prepared
to talk business. They came in f;.rce, a
constant stream of them. Some carried
. big bundles of official-looking papers in
their hands; others, more modest, looked
suspiciously large about the pockets.
But there was a number in the line who
were there at the request of the presi
dent or who came to pay their respects
and not to request favors.
In a few urgent cases only did the pres
ident discuss appointments. He will not
be hurried and the word had gone out
that applicants could do just ns well by
going home for a couple of months be
fore pressing their claims. In effect this
was tho idea carried away by a number
of those who presented their applications
in person.
Those who had been invited to the
White House alone managed to be heard
and to hear with patience.
Nine o’clock found the upstairs corri
dor in the public part of the mansion
pretty well filled with men and not a
few women. A few minutes later when
the president entered his office he found
a score of visitors waiting his appear
ance. He saw many people in the ensu
ing hour but not fast enough to make
any difference in their continually in
creasing numbers.
Right in the midst of the reception Sec
retary John Sherman appeared and car
ried off the president to the cabinet room.
When the president returned to his office
the crowd there In the reception corridor
and In Secretary Porter's room had in
creased largely. Mr. Porter tried to re
lieve the congestion by personal talks
■with those seeking admission to the inner
apartment and succeeded fairly well in
this process of filtering in the face of
overwhelming odds.
Senators and representatives and those
who came with them were more fortunate
in getting the ear of the president than
those who brought written credentials
and indorsements.
The republican members of the Penn
sylvania delegation in congress came in
a body to present the name of W. H.
Elliott for assistant secretary of the
navy. Ex-Congressman Gunther, of
Wisconsin, was among the long line. Mr.
Gunther wants to be consul general to
Mexico. C. H. Conger, who was a mem
ber of congress from Iowa and later min
ister to Brazil, put in an application for
his former diplomatic post.
Among the appointment rumors in cir
culation is one which sends Senator
Cameron, ot Pennsylvania, to succeed Mr.
Chi as ambassador to Germany.
The Massachusetts delegation asked
the place for Representative William F.
Draper, but Senators Quay and Penrose
urged Senator Cameron’s appointment,
and it is stated that Gen. Daper will suc
ceed Minister McVeagh at Rome.
Rear Admiral John G. Walker, who will
reach the retiring age on the 20th of
March, is spoken of as candidate for as
sistant secretary of the navy. 'Mr. Mc
Adoo In the meantime has been requested
to continue to act until his successor
qualifies, amd he has consented to do so.
A candidate for the commissionershlp
of pensions presented himself in the per
son of ex-Congressman Pickier, of South
Dakota, whose term expired March 4th.
One of the few cases of appointment con
sidered by the president was that of the
mission to Greece, Roumania and Servla.
The term of Mr. Alexander, the present
minister at Athens, will expire April 7,
and it is the intention to nominate his
successor without delay.
George A. Flooding, of West Virginia,
who is a candidate for the position, called
on the president this morning at the
request of the latter and his chances
for getting what he wants are consid
ered excellent. Another gentleman anx-s
ious for diplomatic preferment, who saw
the president, was Gen. W. W. Thomas,
of rortiand, Me., who came with Senator
Hale. Gen. Thomas was twice the dip
lomatic representative of the United
States at Stockholm and Is said to have
been assured that he will be sent back to
Sweden.
Col. John Hay was an early caller, but
the president was engaged and the re
puted ambassador to England concluded
not to wait.
H. Clay Evans, of Tennessee, had a
short talk with the president.
The term of FcfUrth Assistant Postmas
ter General Maxwell will expire tomor
row. He was appointed March 9, 1S93,
to succeed E. G. Rathbone, of Ohio. The
fourth assistant postmaster general has
practically uncontrolled power over the
fourth-class postmasters, that is to say.
postmasters receipts of whose offices do
not amount to over $1,000 a year. He
can remove and appe.lnt at pleasure. For
this reason the officer exercising this
function 13 usually termed the "heads
man” of the administration. As the elf
man for appointment^to these small of
fices from congressmen and others is
very great and as these places serve as
a sort of safety valve to the office-seek
ing pressure, it Is expected that the name
of Mr. Maxwell’s successor will soon be
sent Into the senate.
If the president allows the other as
slstantpostmaster generals to finish their
four years term in office. First Assistant
Jones will remain until May 10, as he
succeeded H. Clay Evans, of Tennessee,
on that date.
Second Assistant Nelson succeeded J.
L. Bell, who resigned on Sept. 13, 1893,
and Kerr Cralge, the third assistant,
succeeded Gen. Hazen May 19, 1893.
In the Interior department, First As
sistant Secretary Sims was appointed
March 31, 1893; Assistant Secretary Rey
nolds, April 10, 1893; Commissioner La
moreaux, of the general land office,
March 28, 1893; Commissioner of Pensions
Murphy. May 28, 1896. succeeded Judge
William Loehran. resigned. Commis
sioner Murphy has been employed in
the bension bureau since March 13, 1871,
with th£gxception of a few years. Com
missioner of Patents Seymour, was ap
pointed March 31, 1893. and Commissioner
of Indian Affairs Browning, April 17,
1S93.
Secretary Long started In at the navy
department today with an appointment
which miets general approval from all
who, like Secretary Long himself, be
lieve in civil service reform. He promot
ed Benjamin Franklin Peters, of Harris
burg, Pa., to be chief clerk of the de
partment. Mr. Peters was appointed a
clerk of one of the lower grades In the
department slxteefi years ago by Secre
tary Hunt trpen the recommendation of
Senator J. D. Cameron. He now occupies
the position of appointment clerk, having
risen by merit to that rank through the
various grades. He was a m mber of
the board to r-evise the business methods
of the navy department. Under the im
mediate direction of the secretary of the
navy he prepared the regulations govern
ing the employment of labor at navy
yards and has had charge of their en
forcement. He devised the card record
system in use by boards of labor employ
ment at navy yards and has been the
confidential and general utility man of
Secretary Whitney. Secretary Tracy and
Secretary Herbert. TJie new chief clerk
assumed 'the duties at once In addition
to his other work.
The navy department will In all prob
ability issue advertisement for armor
for the battleships Alabama, Illinois and
Wisconsin upon which congress placed a
limit of $300 per ton. It Is understood
that no time for the delivery- of the ar
mor will be specified, which will permit
concerns without the required plant to
compete for the work and install the
necessary machinery as the delivery
progresses.
Ex-Secretary Carlisle has made no
definite plans for the future. He will re
main in Washington for some time yet.
Secretary Sherman has signed extradi
tion papers applied for by Sir Julian
Paunc-efote authorizing the delivery of
“Lee Waller,” better known as Frank
Butler, now held at San Francisco, to the
Australian authorities. The diplomatic
corps have been notified that the foreign
ambassadors, ministers, secretaries, at
taches will be received at the department
of state of Secretary Sherman at 11 a. m.
on Wednesday, and the president will re
ceive them at the executive mansion at
noon on the same day.
Steps have been taken by the war de
partment, to further guard the sea coas-t
defenses from Inquisitive inspection by
persons who ought not to know what pre
cautions the United States have made
for protection In time of war. The rig
orous regulations already In force dur
ing the building of fortifications have,
now that many works are Hpproaching
completion, been supplemented and em
phasized by the following general orders
from Major General Miles, commanding
the army, which, though signed March
1, were not Issued to the service until to
day.
No persons except officers of the army
and navy of the United States and per
sons In the service of the United States
employed in direct connection with the
use, construction or care of these works,
will be allowed to visit any portion of
the lake and coast defense of the United
States without the written authority of
the commanding officer In charge.
Neither written nor pictorial descrip
tions of these works will be made for
publication without the authority of the
secretary of war; nor will any informa
tion be given concerning them which Is
not contained In the printed reports and
documents of the war department.
Commanding generals of departments
will see that this order Is carried into ef
fect and that the permission to visit the
defenses referred t o-ls only given for
proper military reasons.
Commanding officers, ordnance ser
geants, and others In charge of fortifi
cations or any means of lake or coast
defenses will exercise great care in act
ing- upon applications to visit the works
and will grant such only as may be war
ranter! for good1 and sufficient military
reasons.
Commanding generals of department
concerned will give this matter their con
tinued personal attention to the end that
any direlletion of the duty herein may
be Immediately observed and promptly
met by discipline.
AT LAST
The Deadlock Broken—Bill and Substi
tute to Annul Southern Railway Lase
Tabled and Stdnds as Before.
Raleigh. N. C., March 9.—The bill to
annul the lease of the North Carolina
railroad to the Southern railway, together
with the substitute and amendments, was
finally disposed of In the house of repre
sentatives today when a motion to table
prevailed by the vote of the supporters of
the original measure. The deadlock that
began at 1 o’clock Friday and threatened
■to continue to the close of the session was
broken this morning, when the support
ers of the Coojt bill saw that they could
not get their measure through the house
a second time, there being a majority of
the bin to the passage of the Grant sub
stitute; but they were able, by dilatory
tactics, to prevent action on the latter,
and to prevent a failure of action upon
a number of bills that -were pending,
voted to table the substitute, the support
ers of the latter refraining from voting.
The matter now stands as It was before
the bill to annul the lease was introduced.
The senate today passed a bill, which
had previously gone through the house, to
pyt Cleveland and Gaston counties In the
Seventh congressional districts and
Davie and Godkin counties In the Eighth.
The legislature will adjourn at noon to
morrow.
AUXILIARY BILL FILED
In the Building and Loan Case and In
junction Issued.
Macon. Ga., March S.-An auxiliary bill
was filed in the United States court this
morning In the case of .1. S. Soules, of
Ohio; E. O. Walthall, of North Carolina;
J. K. Summerwall, of Ken lucky, com
plainants for themselves and all other
bona fide creditors, sharehouldgrs of the
Covenant Building and Loan associa
tion, vs. said association of Knoxville,
and W. J. Neel, of Rome. The bill.al
lege s that the court has jurisdiction be
cause the association has an office in
this state; that C. R. McElwalne and W.
M. Ashmore have been appointed perma
nent receivers by the United States court
In Tennessee; that the association has
assets at Albany and asks that an In
junction be issued prohibiting interfer
ence with the assets and that a receiver
be appointed to take charge of the same.
Judge Speer passed an order appoint
ing Messrs. WcEbvaln and Ashmore re
ceivers for1 the assets iu Georgia.
TEXT OF REPLY
To The Ultimatum of The Great
Powers.
THE GREEKS IN THIS COUNTRY
Are Preparing to Answer the Call of King George.
Driven From Terms of Policy—Foreigners
Advised to Leave Athens While They
Can Do So In Perfect Safety.
London. March 8.—A dispatch to the I
Central News from Athens gives a sum
mary of the reply to the ujtimatum of
the Powers“which Greece will hand to
the diplomats when the time expires in
which a reply can be made.
It will recall that Greece In 1896, in
deference to the wish of the Powers,
used, her influence with the Cretans to
Induce them to accept reforms offered
by Turkey.
It will point out that the continued
unsettled state of the Island Is proof
of the futility of the measures of re
form.
'With regard to the autonomy of the
island the reply will state that it is for
the Cretans to decide whether they
will accept it or not.
It will declare that the evacuation oif
Crete by Greece is Impossible because
peace, to restore which Greek troops and
warships were sent to the island, re
mains seriously disturbed.
READY TO GO.
St. Louis, March 8.—Demetrius Janno
poulo, Grecian vice consul in this city,
announces that every able-bodied man
in the Greek colony here will answer the
call of King George.
Greeks are prepared to go to their re
serve commands at once, as the call has
■been anticipated and each man has ar
ranged his business affairs to respond at
on ee.
Mr. Jannopoulo is in daily receipt of
scores of letters from sympathizers ask
ing how they may best serve the cause
of the Cretans.
RESIST TO 'THE BITTER END.
Canea, March 8.—It is believed here
that the reply of Greece to the demands
of the powers will be a positive refusal
to obey, and that a bloody struggle Is
therefore Inevitable unless the powers re
cede from their position.
It is known that Col. Vasso, the com
mander of the Greek army of occupa
tion, ha i received Instructions from King
George to hold all the positions In the
island now occupied by the Greek
troops, and to prepare to resist to the bit*
ter'end any attempt on the part of any
body to dislodge him.
Information reached here that the
Greek troops are enthusiastio over the
determination of their king not to order
their withdrawal from the island, and It
is believed that it would take a far
stronger force than their own to dis
lodge them from the strategic positions
they occupy. The events of the next few
days are anxiously awaited.
THE POWERS TO BE DEFIED.
Athpns, March 8.—In view of the fact
that the time allowed by the powers for
Greece to withdraw her troops and her
fleet from Crete Is on the eve of expira
tion and that the certainty that the pow
ers will be defied by King George, some
of the foreign ministers here have recom
mended that all foreigners in Athens
leave the city while they may do so in
safety.
This recommendation has provoked an
indignant protest from the Athens news
papers which declare that there is not the
slightest danger, nor is there likely to be.
Foreign residents have been inclined
to take the view of the newspapers rath
er than that of the ministers and few, if
any, have left the city or made prepara
tions to do 30.
A telegram received today says that a
Macedonian leader at the head of 120
men had a fight Saturday with a detach
ment of Turkish troops near Grevena,
Macedonia, not far from the frontier of
Thessaly. The Macedonians were vic
torious and captured the Turkish posi
tion.
DIVERGENT LINES OF POLICY.
Berlin, March 8.—Differences as to the
amount of autonomy to be accorded to
Crete follow the divergent lines of poli
cy seen in the early Greco-Cretan nego
tiations. The German and Russian gov
ernments propose limited constitutional
rights for the Cretans with a large trib
ute to thft porte and gendarmes, one
fourth of which should be Moslem. The
governor-general, according to these pow
ers, should be nominated at Constanti
nople under the approval of the powers.
The English, French and Italian gov
ernments, on the other hand, propose al
most entire autonomy, the governor
general to be elected by the Cretan gen
eral assembly, which would be elected1 by
something like popular suffrage and have
full control of the gendarmerie and
other matters relating to the Internal
order.
A plebiscite on the question of union
with Greece was scouted at Berlin, prob
ably because It was believed that no hon
est plebiscite was possible In Crate.
The withdrawal of Turkish troops, In
sisted on by Lord Salisbury, has not been
viewed as absolutely necessary or advis
able here.
DO NOT DIFFER IN PURPORT.
London, March 8.—The full text of the
collective notes addressed by the powers
to Turkey and Greece last week was Is
sued by the foreign office today and it is
seen that the notes do not differ in pur
port from the summaries which were
published at the time. The note address
ed to the porte states that the autonomy
of Crete Implies a progressive reduction
of the Ottoman forces oh the island to
begin after the Greek troops now In Crete
are withdrawn.
THE GENDARMES DEPART.
Canea, March 8.—The Internal gen
darmerie in the island of Crete has been
disbanded and the French and Italian
officers'of the gettdaitmes have taken
their departure. The Montenegrins be
longing to the gendarmerie have been re
tained by Russia, wno will pay them for
their services.
NOT AN ULTIMATUM. \
London, March 8.—In the house of com
mons today Rt. Hon. A*-J. Balfour, first
lord of the treasury, deqted that the col
lective note which the'iwwers had ad»
dressed to Greece was couched in the
form of an. ultlmgtOm» -There was no
doubt, he said, tttst there was a differ
enoe between the position of Turkey and
that of Greece. The latter was acting In
defiance of the powers, while Turkey was
acting purely in the defensive and show
ing that she had no desire to resist the
desires of the powers.
Mr. G. N. Curzon, under foreign sec
retary, raid it was impossible to pledge
the powers to the appointment of a Chris
tian governor of Crete.
OUTLINE OF THE LETTER.
Athens, March 8.—Nothing more than a
summary of the reply of Greece to the
ultimatum of 'the powers is obtainable up
to this hour, but the following Is a cor
rect outline of the letter delivered to the
foreign office today:
The note says that George, In conform
ing to the wishes of the powers, recom
mended that the Cretans accept certain
reforms, but the Moslems rendered these
reforms Impossible, and Greece was,
therefore obliged to Intervene to protect a
sister nation.
An autonomist administration for the
Island, the note says, does not constitute
a solution of the difficulty and the Cretans
reject it. Greece, the note says in con
clusion, Is willing to accept the decision
of the Cretans as to whether they desire
autonomy or annexation.
The recall of the Greek fleet and troops
would be a signal for further excesses
In the Island in the face of which Greeks
could not remain impassive. Therefore,
the recall of the fleet and troops is Impos
sible.
FRANCE'S POSITION.
Paris, March 8.—In the chamber of
deputies today M. Hanotaux, minister of
foreign affairs, requested that the offer
ing of Interpellations on the subject of
the reply of Greece to the ultimatum of
the powers be postponed as the reply
had not yet been received. Ex-Minister
Goblet pressed the government to con
sult the chamber before taking any ac
tive steps In regard to Greece.
Prime Minister Moline and M. Hano
taux both declared that It was impossi
' le to speak on the subject before
.Greece’s reply and her Intentions
were officially known, but they added
Ihefe would be no military operations by<
France without the assent of the cham
ber.
M. Mlllerand. a socialist member, asked
that tomorrow be fixed for debating the
question.
Prime Minister Meline recommended to
fix the date and he was supported by the!
chamber by a vote of 325 to 195.
M. Jaures, socialist, said he would re
new the Interpellate i on the subject
dally. ,,
MINISTERS AVITHDRAAVN.
Rome, March 8.—It Is semi-officially
announced that owing to the adverse re
ply of Greece to the demands of the pow
ers the latter will at once withdraw their
ministers from Athens.
REPLY UNSATISFACTORY.
Berlin. March 8.—The reply of Greece
to the note of the powers has been re
ceived here and as was expected, Is un
satisfactory. In consequence Germany
and Russia have signified their approval
of an immediate blockade of the Greek
and Cretan coasts.
PASSAGE HOME AVILL BE PAID.
New York. March 8.—Mr. Botassi, the
Greek consul general, has received over
100 telegrams and 500 letters from Greeks
all over the country volunteering to go to
Greece. The consul general said today
that most of the writers coupled their
desire to go home with the condition
that their passage be paid. He had re
ceived notice from his government this
morning that all Greeks who wished to
go home to fight will have to pay their
own passage as the government has
made no provision for such expenditure.
SHARP FIGHTING.
London. (March 8.—A dispatch from
Herkallon, Island of Crete, to the Cen
tral News says that the Insurgents who
are besieging the town today declared
the armistice ended and closed upon
the place. The Ottoman troops resisted
the Insurgents from three points In the
outskirts and there was sharp fighting.
No furlher details are to be had.
THE LOCALTREEKS.
They Are Preparing and AVilling to Re
turn and Fight Under King
George.
Many of the Greeks of this city are
only awaiting a call from King George
.when they will return to their native
country to engage in war with the un
speakable rrurk. It Is said that one
man has already left this city for that
purpose.
There are several others who express a
willingness to go back and some Greeks
are looking for purchasers for their es
tablishments when they, too, will enlist
under the much beloved King George.
It Is understood that the Greeks in
other cities, Chicago, New York, St.
Louis, New Orleans, and Mobile, have
been preparing themselves and are' al
most in readiness to leave at short no
tice. In several of the large northern
cities companies have been (formed and
drilled thu3 making themselves ready
for the field without any great delay.
It is said that of the 40,000 Greeks in
this country 10,000 have received notice
to return to Greece as they have been
"drafted.” They go willingly and even
sacrifice their worldly possessions with
out unnecessary grumbling.
VESUVIUS TO PRACTICE.
Jacksonville, Fla., March 8.—The dy
namite cruiser Vesuvius, Captain PHIs
bury, will go down the river tomorrow
and out to sea. where she will practice
with three larg* dynamite guns. The
guns are capable of discharging 500
pounds of dynamite, and while they were
thoroughly tested on land before being
mounted on t Vesuvius, they have. It
is said, never beta fired from that ves
sel, and that the first shot from them
will be fired off the Florida coast tomor
row. Projectiles and small shells will
also be fired from the same guns, which
are so arranged that any kind of a shot
can be used. The charges are fired by
compressed air with 3,000 pounds of pres
sure to the square Inch, and there is very
little report from the discharge, which
sounds something like the snapping of a
spring gun. It is hoped that the test
will be successful.
MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Relict of the Noted Divine Died at Her
Home Yesterday.
Stamford, Conn., March S.—Mrs. Henry
Ward Beecher died at 10:42 o’clock this
morning.
Mrs. Beecher died at the home of her
son-in-law. Rev. Samuel Scoville. She
was unconscious for twenty-four hours
before her death, and her end came
peacefully. None of her relatives, ex
cept her daughter's family and a niece,
Miss Bullard, were present. The family
c nsists of Mr, and Mrs. Scoville and
their son and daughter.
Eunice White Beecher was bom in
West Sutton, Mass., Aug. 26, 1812, and
was educated at Hadley, Mass. When
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher settled in
his pastorate in Lawrenceberg, Ind., he
returned to the east to claim his bride,
after an engagement extending over sev
en years. Mrs. Beecher has been a
contributor, chiefly on domestic sub
jects, to various periodicals, and some of
her articles have been published in book
form.
During a long and tedious illness in
her early married life she wrote a series
of reminfeeenees of her first years as a
minister’s wife, afterward published
with the title: "From Dawn to Day
light, a Simple Story of a Western
Home,” under the pen name of a minis
ter’s wife. She has also published
“Motherly Talks With Young House
keepers,” “Letters From Florida,” “All
Around the House or How to Make
Homes Happy,” and "Home.”
CONVENTION
Of the Young Men’s Christian Associa
tion to Be Held in Mobile April
21 to 25 Inclusive.
_
Mobile, Ala., March 8.—The committees
have been appointed and preparations
are making for adequate reception and
entertainment of the in:ernat!onal con
vention of the Young Men’s Christian
association, which will meet here April
21 to 25 inclusive.
Among the speakers who have already
agreed to take part in the convention
are the Rt. Rev. Bishop Sessums, of
Louisiana, and Chancellor Kirkland, of
Vanderbilt University, two leading or
ganizers and Christian workers of the
country; Pastor C. I. Scofield, of North
field, Mass. Mr. Scofield is an ex-con
federate officer and lawyer and one of
the leading preachers and Bible students
of the country, Ife will have charge of
the Bible work of the convention. Mr.
John R. Mott, the leading young man in
Christian work in America today, who
has just returned from an eighteen
months’ tour among the colleges of the
world, will give the master address of
the occasion on a “World Wide Student
Movement.”
There will be other leading clergy and
laymen who will take an active part
in the convention
Three presidents of previous conven
tions and nine of the leading members
of the international committee have al
ready signified their intention to be pres
ent.
The singing of the convention will he
under the direction of John P. Hillis,
who has been associated with Rev. B.
Fay' Mills as a gospel singer.
Mobile, Ala,, and the south expect great
things from this convention. Mobile In
tends n3 far as it lies in her power, to
do well her part and give her distin
guished guests a genuine southern wel
come.
MORE COFFEE FROM SANTOS.
Charleston, S. C.. March 8.—The steam
ship Horrox, Captain Cordegan, arrived
ihis morning from Santos with a cargo
of coffee for the Charleston Importing
and Exporting company. This is the sec
ond cargo which the company has re
ceived. The first cargo is still unloading,
and another Is now en route to this port.
SAME OLD STORY,
A Home is Ruined and the Ready Pistol
Plays the Leading Roll in the
Drama.
Atlanta, Ga.. March 8.—H. S. Perry
shot L. B. LanieT twice today In ihe De
ICalb county court house at Decatur, Ga.
Perry says that Danler was breaking up
the peace of his home. He does not
charge criminal intimacy with Mrs. Perry
but leaves that impression in his state
ments. Lanier, who Is dangerously
wounded at the Grady hospital In this
city, denies that he violated the honor
of the Perry family. A letter has been
produced which Perry wrote to Lanier
last Friday warning him to leave the
state at once or take the consequences.
Lanier replied protesting, but at the
same tim» he left Atlanta and went out
In De-Kalb county. Perry was looking
for him yesterday but Lanier kept hid.
This morning the two men met on a
train. Perry acted in a threatening
way and Lanier jumped off at Decatur.
Perry followed1 him and fired at him. Both
were arrested and taken to the court
house. While Lanier was standing in
the court room with his back to Perry
the latter drew- a pistol and shot Lanier
in the back. Lanier fell and Perry
walked up to him and shot him again.
Perry was placed in jail and Lanier was
brought to Atlanta and placed in the
Grady hospital. Perry is an express mes
senger.
THE NEW YORK COMMISSION
Accepts Office In the Woman’s Room of
the Tennessee Centennial.
New York, March 8.—The New York
city commission to the Tennessee Cen
tennial and international exhibition met
today at the cotton exchange. Among
those present were: E. Vonatten, A. T.
Vanleer, Charles J. Smith, Colonel G.
M. Smith. Mis. McWilliams, L. J. Ellis,
G. H. Hall and William V. King, who
presided.
After a resolution was passed accepting
office room in the woman’s building In the
exposition an appeal to ihe citizens of
the city urging them to exhibit goods
and make a display worthy of the city
and state was issued.
A BIG FALLING OFF,
New York. March 8.—iThe report of
the Tennessee Iron and Coal road for the
year ended Dec. SI. 1898. ihows profits
of $692,333 against $395,793 in 1895. Undi
vided profits carried forward $31,062
against $543,065, the previous year.
A DISMAL DAY IN CARSON
Nothing Transpires to Create
Mi/J?j Excitement.
JIM’sMlTTING ability
IB —
Is Not Dojg d—A Wag Registers as John L.
Sull./' and Creates No Little In
foT est—Fitz Paces to Carson.
V
V _
Carton, Nev., March 8.—This was a dis
mal day in Carson within and without.
Corbett and Fitzsimmons went through
.their regulation stormy day programme
with more or less grumbling, and nothing
transpired to create much excitement.
Roeber, Hickey and Stenzier had an easy
time of it this afternoon. None of them,
stopped many blows and the taps th- y did
receive from Fitzsimmons were light and
playfully landed.
Half an hour before the eastern train
-was due, Fitzsimmons put on his leggins
and set out for Carson, paced by his great
dane, Yarum. Mrs. Fitzsimmons was
greeted with a hearty smack as she came
down the step? of the train and the baby
received a fond coddling. Bob then trot
ted home behind the carriage containing
his wife and child and Martin Julian.
Corbett was not so paciiic. He lost a
close game of hand ball In the morning,
and It seemed to nettle him. He started
out for his afternoon’s work like a hired
man who had not been paid his wages for
six months. The punching bag did not
hang to suit him, and he .thumped It so
hard that the value stop flow off and into
the gutter and the rope snapped. None
of those who were present at his display
of irritation went away with any d mbt
in their minds as .to Jim’s hitting ability.
When the ball rebounded awkwardly he
would hook It with his left three or four
times in rapid succession at terrific speed
and if Fitzsimmons ever catches one of
such blows he may as well cancel his
theatrical engagements.
After the bag c. llapsed Jim essayed to
wipe-out the defeat of the morning at
hand ball. H succeeded tills time in
making it three straight on A1 Hamp
ton. This put him In better humor and
McVey’s head did not bump the wall
with so much violence during the wrest
ling bout which was n-xt on the pro
gramme. Jeffries. Woods and Joe Cor
bett contributed four rounds of amuse
ment for the champion but they were not
so hard pressed as usual. Jim Invited
attack and stood on th. defensive most of
the time. He danced, side stepped,
ducked and dodged, all the while begging
this trainers to follow him and land if „
they could. They k»pt after him but
never scored a blow.
A wag registered as John I,. Sullivan
at a Reno hotel this morning. The word
was passed along and a great crowd soon
packed the hotel office. A Texas friend
of Dan Stuart’s, Kellar by name, who is
said to resemble John L. in appearance,
was singled out from among the knot
of strangers who had arrived on the
morning train and photographed in a
dozen attitudes before the mistake was
discovered. In Carson It was rumored
that John was coming down and the en
tire population hurried to the depot only
to be disappointed for the third time
within a week. A raw wind has been
blowing from the west all day with occa
sional flurries of snow. The mercury
hangs around freezing point and the
forecaster is at sea.
SENATE PROCEEDINGS.
Oscar A. Jones Confirmed to Be Pension
Agent at Detroit.
Washington, March 8.—The senate as
sembled at noon and a3 soon as Friday’s
Journal was read, a message In writing
from the president of ‘the United States
was presented by Mr. Pruden, one of his
secretaries—the same gentleman who has
been performing like duties under suc
cessive presidents for many years past.
Among the papers prerented by sena
tors were memorials of the legislature of
New Mexico asking for certain mining
legislation by congress and of the legisla
ture of Montana in favor of the election
of United States senators by the people
and of placing the Union Pacific railroad
system In the hands and in the control of
the government. Also by the vice-presi
dent, a memorial from the New York
chamber of commerce favoring the ratifi
cation of the arbitration treaty, and a
protest against the same.
The senate then proceeded to the con
sideration of executive busin: ss and at
1 p. m. adjourned until Wednesday.
The message from the President con
veyed the nomination of Oscar A. Junes,
to be pension agent at Detroit—the only
nomination of the day. It was confirm
ed in executive session.
"ThTturfT
New Orleans, March 8.—A big crowd for
'Monday witnessed today’s pacing. The
track was heavy and only mud horses
could act to advantage. Three favorites
won, however, and the public did well.
First Race—Seven furlongs; Sauternn,
102 (A Barrett), 8 to 5, won; Jim Hogg,
second; Eleanor Me, third. Time. 1:36%.
Second Race—'Two year olds, half mile:
Sly Fox. 105 (Hirsch), 7 to 2. won; Van
Antwerp, second; George T. Todd, third;
Time 53%.
Third Race—Mile and 20 yards: Do
mingo, 1(^6 (Seherrer). 4 to 1, won; Dave
Pulsifer, second; Jack the Jew, third.
Time 1:53.
Pmrth Race—Seven furlongs: Sharon,
lt)6 (A. Barrett), even, won; The Pluto
crat. second; Paladin, third. Time 1:35.
Fifth Race—Seven furlongs: Little
Matt, 106 (J. Hill), 6 to 1 won; Harry
He, Second; Harry B., third. Time.
136%.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs: Oilcan, 99
(T. Burns), 3 to 1. won: Alkyrls. second;
Mamie Callan, third. Time, 1:21%.
HART GETS TWO YEARS
For Aiding In Fitting Out a Filibuster
ing Expedition.
Philadelphia, Pa.. March 8.—John D.
Hart, who was several days ago convict
ed of aiding in fitting out of the filibuster
ing expedition steamer Laurada, was to
day Sintenced by Judge Butler to two
years’ imprisonment and to pay a fine
of $500 and costs of prosecution. Prior
to the passing of the sentence the court
refused a motion for a new trial made
last week by Hart's counsel.
PRESIDENT R. B. M’CONNELL,
Of the Defunct Merchants' Bank, At
tempts Suicide.
Ocala, Fla., March ff.—R. B. McCon
nell, president of the defunct Merchant’s
National bank at Ocala attempted sui
cide one day last week in Gcaja by tak
ing poison. The physicians who were
called had great difficulty in saving Mr.
McConnell’s life, and It Is said that he is
still dangerously 11L
. . .>_ BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1897. NUMBER 44
GHEECE GOES QUIETLY ON
With Her Preparations for the
Inevitable.
THE POWERS AT A HALT
Because of the Tone of the Answer of King
George to their Ultimatum—Volun
teers Respond to the Call.
London, March 9.-^The latest! dis
patches from Athens say that the fever
of excitement is abating, and the city is
becoming quieter. The Greek govern
ment have reason to believe that the
moderate tone ol' Greece’s note to the
powers will be approved by the govern
ments at Paris and London and obiige
the powers to pause. Germany and Rus
sia, in the opinion of the Greek govern
ment, will not act alone and a halt on
the part of the powers is believed to be
assured.
Another dispatch from Athens says
that every available steamship in Greek
waters has been chartered for the pur
pose of conveying, war material to
Thessaly. The reserves who have been
summoned to arms by the government
are arriving by thousands, amid the
cheers of the populace and are being hur
ried to the front.
M. Skour.as, Greek minister of foreign
affaire has sent a telegram in response
to numerous offers of Englishmen to take
up arms in the Greek cause, saying that
only Greeks are admitted to the Greek
army.
The list of British authors who have
signed an address expressing sympathy
with Greece includes Giant Alien, Justin
McCarthy, Hall Cain, William Watson,
Anthony Hope and Israel Zangwell.
-- n— ■■■
GREECE PREPARING
For the VvTar Which Seems Now Inevita
ble—Men and Munition Landed.
Athens, March 9.—The reply of the
Greek government to the ultimatum of
the powers having been delivered to the
foreign representatives her preparations
for hostilities between Greece and Tur
key, which arc apparently Inevitable, are
being hurried forward with all possible
speed. Crown Prince Constantine is
about to start for the Turkish frontier
to assume command of the Greek troops
there and several Greek transports have
landed great quantities of %var material
and large numbers of horses and mules
at Volo, The-saly.
It Is reported that Greek bands have
destroyed a number of bridges on the
railway between Monastic the present
headquarters of the Turkish army, and
Salonica.
—-o
ORDERED TO LEAVE AT ONCE.
Greeks, Including the Vice Consulate, No
tified to Vacate Canea.
Canea, (March 9.—Admiral Canevaro,
commanding the united fleet of the pow
ers, has notified -the Greeks here, includ
ing the Greek vice consulate, th-at they
mu^ leave the island at once. It is re
ported that the siege of Kandamos has
been raised, and that the Mussulmans
who were beleaguered there, have moved
to places of Safety.
The Insurgents have made an attack
upon the Turkish positions at Altrotiri.
yesterday, but were stoutly resisted by
the Turks and finally repulsed. The in
surgents were reinforced during the night
and renewed their attack upon the place
today.
GERMANY’S PLiAN
Of Blockading Greece to Take On Rather
a Mild Form of Procedure.
London, March 9.—Dispatches from
official sources in Berlin say that certain
measure of the blockading of Greece must
be observed, though it may not be im
mediately enforced. The form of block
ade which Germany favors Is something
similar to that which was put into opera
tion in 1886, which was pre-eminently a
peaceful blockade. Under the German
plan, as oui.lined In the Berlin dispatches,
a fortnight should elapse before any ac
tion is taken. At the expiration of that
time a pacific form of blockade should
be put Into operation under which any
Greek or other vessel that may be arrest
ed will not be confiscated, but will be re
*' leased when the blockade is laised.
' COERCIVE MEASURES
Toward Greece Must Be Delayed, Is the
Opinion of France and Italy.
London, March 9.—The communications
which Lord Salisbury wired to the pow
ers last evening concerning the reply of
Greece to the collective note of the pow
ers have resulted in the concurrence of
France and Italy with Great Britain that
coercive measures toward Greece should
be delayed and negotiations continued at
Athens. A telegram received at the for
eign office from Rome states that the
Italian government considers the Greek
note of too negative a character to jus
tify the powers In taking immediate ac
tion.
FORCE. IF NECESSARY.
London, March 9.—The Westminster
Gazette publishes a dispatch from Canea,
Crete, which says Wre Greeks have been
ordered by the commander of the united
fleets to leave that place immediately.
The Greek vice-consul at Canea, who is
Included In this order, has replied that
he will submit only to force, which, the
dispatch adds, will be employed by the
powers. If necessary, to compel obedi
ence to the order.
A POOR SHOWING.
Vienna. March 9.—Poli’ical Correspond
ence professes to have reliable informa
, tlon that Greece nas only 8,006 troops In
Thessally, while the whole army effect
ive there is only 14,060 men and a mobili
zation of the available force will realize
barely 80,000 untrained troops.
■ \
THE REPLY EVASIVE.
Vienna, March 9.—The Greek reply to
the identical note of the six powers has
been received at the ministry of foreign
affairs, where It has been most carefully
considered. It Is not considered at ail
satisfactory, as It is evasive, Greece ap
parently bring desirous of dodging tije
vital points upon which the identical note
was based.
AN EXTRA MEETING
r "-«»*•r
Of the English Cabinet Held to Discuss
the New Cretan Situation.
London, March 9.—An extra meeting of
the cabinet to cqpslder the new Cretan
situation arising from Greece’* practical
refusal to accede to the demands of the
I ]
powers, was held this evening In one of
the private rooms of the house of com
mons. After the meeting Prime Minister
Salisbury went to the foreign office,
where he was visited by Count Drim, the
Austrian ambassador. Later, Lord Sal
isbury sent telegraphic messages to the
foreign capitals, and to Admiral Sir
Michael Sulm-e Seym mr. comma nder-in
chief of the British Mediterranean squad
ron.
CHRISTIANS FIRED UPON
By An Italian Cruiser Off Hlerapetra—
Turks Have Another Foe to Fight.
Canea, March 9.—Advices from Hiera
petra, on the south coast of the island of
Crete, say that Mussulmans in posses
sion of that town were summoned to sur
render by the Christian insurgents who
were infesting the town and that the
Mussulmans refused to do so. The in
surgents then fired a volley into the fort
which was held by the Moslems, where
upon an Italian cruiser lying off the town
fired on the insurgents, compelling them
to retire. The Turkish transport with
Turkish civil officers and soldiers on
board arrived here from Kasteli today,
biit was refused a pilot to bring her into
the harbor owing to the fact of her hav
ing smallpox on board.
-o
ITALY SHOWS HER HAND.
If Crete Is to Be Occupied by the Powers
All Must Take a Hand.
Rome. March 9.—The cabinet met in
council this forenoon, the premier, Mar
quis Di Rudini, presiding, to discuss the
reply of Greece to the collective note of
the powers and as the result of the dis
cussion a communication was sent to
either of the great powers saying that
according to the opinion of Italy, the
powers are still out of accord as to the
method of coercion which should be di
rected against Greece and that nothing
can be done until the question is set
tled. The dispatch further says that the
foreign admirals in Cretan waters differ
in opinion from Admiral Canevaro, com
manding the Italian squadron, and by
reason of seniority directing the united
fleet, who reports that the mere blockade
of the Piraeus would be ineffective. The
united fleet, he says, must extend its
operations from the Piraeus to Volo, in
Thessaly'. The communication of the
government to the powers adds that Italy
will not entertain a proposal to occupy
Crete alone, hut if there shall be any
occupation of the island It must be a
mixed occupation.
FRANCE (JOES SLOW.
Paris, March 9.—In the chamber of
deputies today M. Millerand, socialist,
again interpellated the government re
garding the Cretan question and the ac
tion to be taken by France in view ofphe
refusal of Oreece to heed the ultimatum
of the powers.
Prime Minister Meline and M. Hano
taux, minister of foreign affairs, asked
that consideration of the subject be de
ferred until Thursday and this was
agreed to by the chamber by a vote of
342 to 205. ,
■-O-r
THE GREEK VICE CONSUL
And a Number of Netvspaper Men Leave
Canea—Akrotiri Fight Ended.
Canea, March 9.—M. BarakaJis, the
Greek vice consul, the staff of the con
sulate and a number of Greek newspaper
reporters, embarked on a vessel this af
ternoon to return, to Greece, Admiral
Canevaro insisting that his orders that
they leave the island must be obeyed.
The fight at Akrotiri ceased at noon to
day, the insurgents changing their posi
tion owing to their fears that they would
again be bombarded by the foreign war
ships.
CHRISTIANS BEING PERSECUTED.
Canea, March 9.—Advices received from
Retimo show that the pillaging of the
houses and shops of the Christians th°re
is still going- on. The vice consuls sta
tioned at Retimo have asked the consuls
here that protection be afforded the
Christians.
RUSSIA'S POSITION.
London, March 9.—The Chronicle will
tomorrow publish a dispatch from
Athens saying that the kernel of the sit
uation is that Russia is pursuing Greece
with a terrible vindictiveness that it is
impossible to explain. It is stated that
Russia realizes that millions of Greek
Christians in the east yield religious .al
legiance only to the Greek patriarch,
which is a serious liar to Russia’s plans.
M. Muravieff, the Russian foreign min
ister, is anxious to remove this ba.r by
humiliating Greece and destroying her
influence with the patriarch.
TIKE GREEK ADMIRAL.
Instructed to Retain His Position and
Pay No Attention to Threats.
Athens, March 9.—Noa Epthemeris, the
ministerial organ, says that orders have
been sent to Admiral Sachtouri, the com
mander of the Greek warships at Canea,
to retain his position and not notice any
directions thai: may be given to him by
the foreign admirals, even if force is
threatened to compel obedience to their
directions.
If is also stated that Prince George, on
board the sehoolshlp Kanarls, went to
Platania and instructed Col. Vassos to
avoid a conflict with the powers and to
withdraw into the interior of the island.
The Greek squadron is blockading a num
ber of Turkish vessels in the Ambracian
gulf.
THIS IS BAD NEWS.
The Montgomery, Tuscaloosa and St.
Louis Railroad Gets a Block Eye.
New York, March 9.—A meeting of
•the stockholders of the Mobile and Ohio
Railroad company was held today to con
sider the proposed extension from Colum
bus, Miss., to 'Montgomery, Ala., a line
about 200 miles long, bearing the name of
the Montgomery, Tuscaloosa and St.
Louis railroad. One-Third of the capital
stock of the Mobile and Ohio was repre
sented and opposition to the extension
was practically unanimous. The opposi
tion was based on the proposition to is
sue $1,000,000 4 per cent, bonds on the
new line to be guaranteed, interest and
principal, by the Mobile and Ohio. This
would Increase the fixed charges ahead
of the Mobile and Ohio stock by $200,000.
The stockholders at their annual meeting
in Mobile, December 28, entered a pro
test against the construction of the ex
tension. Under a power of attorney, ex
ecuted in 1879, the directors of the Mobile
and Ohio are named by the bondholders
instead of the stockholders. The stock
holders are seeking to abrogate this pow
er of ab'orney. The directors have been
trying to organize a syndicate to under
write the extension bends.
-»_ ■_
SETTLED OUT OF COURT.
Atlanta, Ga., March 9.—The Arnold di
vorce suit has been settled out of court,
0. H Arnold agreeing to pay his wife $100
per month alimony. The parties were
prominent here, and the case has at
tracted much attention. Arnold charged
infidelity against his wife. She denied,
this and declared that her husband was
conspiring to rid himself of her.
TRAIN ROBBERS
Hold Up Northbound Fast Mail
No. 4,
OF THE L. St N., NEAR CALERA
Six Men Known To Be In the “Hold Up” Party—
Passengers Not Molested—Several Express
Packages Taken—Engineer Orr Made
To Take a Hand—Sheriff F. P.
O’Brien and Posse Off
On a Special.
Louisville and Nashville passenger
train, northbound, due to arrive here at
12:22 o'clock this morning, was held up
three miles this side of Calera and the
express car looted.
The train was on time leaving Ca
lera, and, as usual, stopped at the tank ;
two miles this side of that place for wa
ter. On leaving there and when mid
way between Calera and Longview the
engineer, Mr. Sant Orr, was surprised to
hear some one call to him from the front
platform of the mail car, ordering him to
reverse his engine. An ugly weapon
aided materially in the inducement for
him to obey orders.
He complied with the instructions and ;
as soon as the train came to a stop he
was ordered down from the engine and
at the advice of two men, heavily armed,
cut loose the air brakes, thereby complet- ,1
ing the estoppage of the train.
The two men, with the engineer then
went back to the third car, the express, '
and the messenger, Mr. H. W. Gordon,
upon being per-emptorlly ordered to open
up, did so and the men went inside and
secured a number of valuable packages,
after which they went back with En
gineer Orr to the front of the train, made
him again adjust the air and pull out,
leaving them masters of the situation
with their booty.
None of the other cars attached to the
train were viBited, though there were
enough men to guard the exit to all
doors and prevent surprises from any
who might make an effort from the rear
end of the train.
THERE WERE SIX.
It is known that at least six men wtre
in the holding up party, but how many
more, if any, co.uid not be learned. The
two men on the front cef the train were
heavily armed, and it is thought bad
appliances for forcing the car door, if
necessary, as they hud some bundles
with them.
A POSTAL CLERK TALKS.
On arrival of the train here a few min
utes before 1 o’clock a State Herald re
porter went around tha crew to get in
formation. It was hard to get, but he
encountered Mr. Hoop, one of the two
postal clerks, who occupied the first car,
and from him he obtained the following:
"We were at work in the car. Sudden
ly, shortly after leaving the tank, the
train came to a sudden stop. At the same
time we heard loud voices immediately
in front of us on the platform. I heard
the air cut off, and poking my head out of
the door I saw an ugly looking revolver
and at the same time heard a gruff voice
say, ‘Put yourd—n head hack or I’ll blow
it off.’ I put It back In short order and
closed and locked the door.”
SHERIFF O’BRIEN AND POSSE.
Sheriff O’Brien was called upon to go
to the scene of the hold up. and as soon
as possible left on a special train with the
following aides: Chief Deputy Robert
Warnook and Deputies Ball, Waldrop,
Jones and Armstrong. He carried his
dogs and six horses and got away a few
minutes after 10 o’clock.
AN OFFICIAL TALKS.
Mr. Fisher, superintendent of the
Southern Express company, who is in the
city, informed a State Herald reporter
that the amount of money obtained was
not less than $1,000, though how much
more he could not say.
The robbers, of whom there were not
less than four, and possibly six, were
heavily anfned, and when they left the
train, went In an easterly direction.
THE AMOUNT SECURED.
It was impossible to learn the amount
' secured by the train robbers, but by a
mere accident a State Herald reporter
lear-netf that the cash secured was in
the neighborhood of $10,000. This, how
ever, Is not reliable.
BRAZIL STIRRED UP.
_ /
Fanatics flnter Upon a War of Destruc
tive Nature—Newspaper Offices Loot
ed and Burned arid Publishers
Assassinated.
Rio Janeiro. March 9.—The excitement
created here by the receipt of the news
yesterday of the defeat and death of Col.
Moriera Caesar and 200 of his soldiers by
a band of fanatics under Conselheiro, at
Canunadas, slate of Bahia, on March 3,
has somewhat abated, though the streets
are still filled with people who only need
a determined leader to incite thenl to re
newed disorder.
The attack upon the officers of three
monarchist newspapers at Sao Paule
and one In this city, all of which were
wrecked and pillaged and afterwards Pet
on tire, wis caused by the belief of the
mobs that the monarchists were assisting
Conselheiro.
Col. Gantll Castro, director of the mon
archist newspapers Gazeta, De Tarde and
Libertado, whose offices were looted and
burned, has been assassinated, and Vis
count Ourapreto, a prominent monarch
ist, was also attacked, but escaped with
slight injury. The offices of newspapers
of monarchist opinions are being guarded
by troops.
QUEEN AND CRESCENT ROUTE,
Shortest and Quickest Line to Cincinnati
—Convenient Service to Louisville.
The Alabama Great Southern railroad,
with Its connections, farming the Queen
and Crescent Route, is the shortest And
quickest line from Birmingham to Cin
cinnati. An elegant vestlbuled train
leaves Birmingham 6:43 a. m., dally, car
rying handsome Pullman drawing room
sleeping car to Cincinnati without
change, arriving Cincinnati 7:10 p. m.
Cafe and observation car on this train
Chattanooga to Cincinnati. Close con
nection at Lexington with chair car for
Louisville, arriving Louisville 7:65 p. m.
A compartment car leaves Birmingham
on Alabama Great Southern railroad
train at 2:30 p. m. daily, via same route,
arriving Cincinnati 7:15 a. m., next morn
. ing. Compartment car Chattanooga to
Louisville on this train, arriving Louis
ville 7:30 a. m.
For comfort and speed travel via the
Queen and Crescent Route.
C. M. Billhelmer, Traveling Passenger
Agent, Alabama Great Southern railroad,
No. 7, North Twentieth street. Tele
phone 848.
SENTENCED TO HANG.
Boston. Mass.. March 9.—Thomas H.
Bram, .he convicted murderer of Capt.
Nash, of the barkentine Herbert Pullor,
was this afternoon in the United States
circuit court sentenced to be hanged on
Friday, June 13, in Charles street Jail,
this pity. Sentence was pronounced by
Judge Colt. Bram said in court: ‘Tn
the presence of Almighty God, I am In
nocent c(f which I am charged. Qod
knows It and He willjirotect me.”
DERANGED AND WANDERING.
Plattsburg, N. Y., March 9.—The Rev.
J. E. Millington, pastor of the Baptist
church at Newark, N. J.. who disappear
ed from his home In that city last week,
arrived at his father’s home in Keese
vllle last night from Montreal. He says
that he knows nothing of what trans
pired since he left home until he fcArnd
himself in Montreal penniless and starv
ing. He Is deranged.
FRISKY AS KITTENS.
Corbett and Fitzsimmons Continue Work,
Though Already in the Pink of-Con
dition—Stuart Denies An
other "Fake.”
Carson, Nev., March 9.—The snow melt
ed swiftly under the sun today and the
roads were once more drying in patches.
Corbett and Fitzsimmons put In three
hours hill climbing this morning prepara
tory to their regular training. Neither
of the heavy-weights show any disposi
tion to let up in their work before the
end of the week, despite the warning of
their trainers. The impression seems
to be that the battle will be a long /one
and the principals are determined to tit
themselves for a full route.
Referee Siler has been comparing notes
for several days with Fitzsimmons and
Corbett in regard to the Queensberry
rules and tomorrow he will prepare a re
sume of his conclusions for publication.
In this digest the rules will be taken
up seriatim and explained early for the
Information of the public.
"I know that I am liable to criticism far
doing this,” explained Mr. Siler, "but I
wish to make my position as clear as
possible before the day of the fight. The
referee’s decision in this contest will di
vert many hundred thousand, dollars, and
1 feel that I cannot 'be too careful. 1 may
say now that there will be no bickering
about the rules. The men have agreed to
leave all to me, and in order that every
body may undvistand how the battle la
to be fought, I propose to make my in
structions to the fighters public tomor
row through the press instead of issuing
>.hem orally in the ring. In the first
clinch someone would shout ‘foul,’ and
upward go a roar from the partisans
of the man supposed ta be fouled. If thy
rules of the contest are clearly explained
beforehand the spectators will know
what latitude the fighters are allowed,
and my rules will mot be so liable to
question. It Is an easy matter to con
fuse the old Queensbery rules, famous
and popular as they are."
Corbett opened the ball this morning
by sprinting around the foot-hills. Jim
does not relish this kind of work, believ
ing that it makes him slow. His trainers
insist that he must take at least a short
walk every morning from now on, and
he has given in to their judgment’.
Fitzsimmons did nof permit his domes
tic cares to interfere with his training.
He was up with the birds in the morning
and off for a long walk after breakfast
ing with his wife and baby. The after
noon programme began with a game of
hand ball, which was soon dropped as
monotonous.
He was as frisky as a kitten while being
rubbed down, and made no complaint
about sore Joints.
The town is filling with street fakirs
and beggars. Marshal Kinney has
rounded up two bunches of hoboes with
in the week and shipped them out of
the state. He is spotting a fresh lot
tonight, and will give them passports
tomorrow morning.
Dan Stuart was annoyed today by a
report telegraphed back from the east
that he had quarreled with United States
District Attorney Jones over money mat
ters. and Lhat In consequence there was a
possibility of federal interference before
the big fight could be pulled off.
"The fact of the matter is this," as
serted Stuart: “Mr. Jones has per
formed considerable legal work for me.
Yesterday he presented his bill. I cheeked
It off with Mr. Wheeler, this morning,
and handed over the money. There was
no quarrel and no threats were made.
That Is the whole story.'1
The district attorney denied warmly
that any friction existed between him
self and Stuart, and ridiculed the idea
of federal interference.
THE AMERICAN WON.
Within Ten Seconds of the End He Lands
the Necessary Knock-Out.
Birmingham, Eng., March 9.—There
was a large number of spectators present
to witness the fight, the hall being crowd
ed to its fullest capacity. Either man en
tered the ring weighing 114>,4 pounds./
The betting at the start was slightly it/j
favor of the Englishman, the odds ot »
him being 5 to 4. In the first three rounds
Plimmer took a strong lead, to the sat
isfaction of his supporters. Kelly ap
peared to be quite flow, and 'he was a
target for Plimmer’s left. In the foiyth
round Plimmer punished Kelly freely,
but the latter frequently missed his
round right hand swings. At the end
of the tenth round Plimmer had be
come a strong favorite, and he was back
ed at 3 to 1 to win. In the fifteenth round
the Englishman had the better of a pret
ty. but) exceptionally hard encounter.
Kelly fought with greater determination,
and Plimmer in the eighteenth round
showed that his previous exertions had
tired him. Kelly had the better of this
round, but nothwithstanding this Plim
mer was a strong favorite in the nine
teenth round. Kelly now renewed his
efforts, realising that nothing but a
knock-out would win the tight for him.
Amid tremendous excitement he hustled
tne Englishman around the ring, gaining
the upper hand. When the twentieth
and last round was half finished Kelly
landed a crushing blow on his opponent’s
jaw. Plimmer staggered, and Kelly fol
lowing up his advantage, landed another
smasher on his throat, knocking him
down. The Englishman ros= after nine
seconds. Kelly hit 'him again and
knocked him out. ten seconds before the
time of the fight would have been up.
The victory of the American was a sen
sational one. Punning acted as referee.
SEEING THE SIGHTS.
A Countryman Taking In the Town, Is
Taken In Himself and Arrested.
L. Chitwood, a countryman, about 22
years old, who says that he is a witness
In the United States court, was ^rested
by Officers McKndght and Scott on two
charges, of carrying concealed weapons
and discharging firearms In the city lim
its.
Chitwood proceeded to “tank up" last
night and set the city after dark. He
finally landed In a dive on Avenue B and
Twenty-fourth e rect, where his female
companion soon became almost as drunk.
During the evening Chitwood thought
his pistol would be better if it was not
leaded, so he proceeded to discharge the
bullets. The officers rudely interposed
und placed him under arrest.
Ills female companion, Lucy Goss, a
woman about twice the age of Chitwood,
was arrested for disorderly conduct.
WILL THEY SUCCEED?
Kentucky State Senators to Save the
State's Fair Name,
Frankfort, Iiy., March 9.—When the
state senate meets Saturday there will
be thirty-three senators sitting and en
titled to vote. Five new men will present
credentials. Four of these are republi
cans, and the plan of the silver democrats
will be to keep thorn from being seated,
and thus prevent the election of a repub
lican United States senator.
Contests have been filed against the
four republicans and the Blackburn peo
ple claim to have enough votes to refer
their credentials until the contests are
passed upon.
It is going to he the old fight of last
winter over again.
HON. WILLIAM J. BRYAN
Accorded a Hearty Welcome at Little
Rojk. Ark.
Little Rock, Ark, March 9.—A crowd/of
10,000 or 12.000 greeted Hon. W. J. Bryan
when he appeared on the stand In front
of the state house at 10:30 o'clock this
morning. Gov. -Jones and Gen. J. C.
Tappen, speaker of the house, appeared
on the stand with the distinguished
speaker. Mr. Bryan's talk after a few
complimentary remarks on the warmth
of the reception tendered by the citizens
was -confined to the science of govern
ment, and that he touched a popular
chord in all he uttered was attested by
most vociferous applause. Mr. Bryan
left for Memphis on the afternoon train.
DENIES THE ALLEGATION.
Newark, N. J., March 9.—Mrs. Dorothy
Dickeison, whose departure from her
home here was connected with the disap
pearance of Rev. J. E. Millington, pastor
of the Fairmnuth Baptist church, this
city, who was located today at Keese
vllle, N. Y., was arrested in Newark to
day, and went to the -house cf her moth
er. “I deny emphatically," she said,
"that I went away with or met Mr. Mill
ington during my absence. I saw him
for the last time one week ago last Sun
day. I went to Chicago at the solicita
tion of a friend, for what purpose I will
not say What I did an'd who I saw is
my business; none of the public’s.”
THE TURF,
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans. March 9.—Fine weather
and a drying track marked today's rac
ing. The attendance numbered 3.500, and
as three favorites won the spoils of the
day were pretty well distributed.
First Race—Seven furlongs. Styx, 94
(Campbell), G to 1, won; Annie Teuton,
second: Baal Gad. third. Time, 1:33%.
Second Race—One and one-sixteenth
miles. Elkin, 104 (Scherrer), 11 to 5, won;
Spetfoach. second, Senator Penrose,
third. Time. 1:54%,
Third Race—Seven furlongs. Little
Billy, 93 (T. Burns), 2 to 1. won: It. Q.
Ban. second; Sky Blue, third. Time,
1:32%.
Fourth Race—One mile. Martin. 98
(Ciav), 5 to 1, won; Stanza, second; Pete
Kitchen, third. Time, 1:40%.
Fifth Race- -Six furlongs. Tommy ,
Rutter. 198 (.T. Hill). 7 to 10, won; Roslyn,
second: Miss Sturgis, third. Time, 1:19%.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. The Sculp
tor, 105 (.7. Gardner), 7 to a. won; .Take
Zimmerman, second; Miss Rowett, third.
Time, 1:18.
WHOLESALE POISONING.
Montgomery, Ala., March 9.—Saturday
last, at the home of Hon. Joshua O. Kel
ley, in Madison county, by some unex
plained rtoson. poison got into a pot of
coffee which the family used for dinn r.
Shortly afterwards Mr. Kelley, his wife,
a young man who was present, and seven
negroes were attacked with symptoms of
poisoning. Mr. Kelley died In a short
time, but the balamee of the afflicted
ones were not so seriously affected. An
other unexplained mystery in connection
with the same affair has transpired
Eleven relatives and friends who spent
the day and night with Mr. Kelley’s re
mains were taken ill with symptoms of
poisoning, but none of them are in a
serious condition. The doctors are mys
tified.
LEM COMMITTEE REPORT
,, jfv./
Vofeninoiis and Complete in
^ Every Particular.
Jg -
ff DISCUSSING TRUSTS
'I -
«-he Committees Divides Them Into Three
f Classes—Laws Not Adequate to Pun
ish Corporations as Desired.
Albany, N. Y., Ilarch 9.—The Lexow
committee met this morning and the
members affixed their signatures to the '
report of the trust investigating commit
tee. The report is an unusually lengthy
one, embracing 3S0 type-witten pages.
Those taken before the committee, the
decisions of other investigating commit
tees and of the United States supreme
court are commented on at length and
much •attention is devoted to the opera
tion of factors’ agreement. In brief, the
report sal's:
Trusts’ agreement no longer form the
basis of, or are they a constituent part
of the aggregations of capital which are
commonly looked upon now as trusts.
In discussing this question of trusts, the
committee finds that it is unnecessary
that abosolute monopoly exists in ordi-r
that the operations of a trust may be se
cured. In discussing trusts, the commit
tee divides combinations and capital into
three class-:s. ‘First are corporations,
which operate under public franchises;
second, legal corporations, which are pro
tected by patents amd tirade marks, and
third, those that depend wholly upon the
use of capita] and which monopolies ex
ist, not naturally or by legal permission,
but by reason of the control of compet
ing companies and product in order thait
the greatest net results may be shown.
The committee does not quite agree
that the trusts and monopolies com
plained of are ‘.‘he natural result of the
progressive evolution, of the times, and
while it does not recognize all combina
tions of capital as trusts in the proper
sense, it does recognize that unless the
evils complained of against mammoth
combinations of wealth, that it will be
hut a short time before the continuance
of the operations of such combination's
will tend to stifle competition end place
the regulation of supply and price of
product, as well a3 ;he business of the
country, in the hands of the few.
Touching the question of over-capitali
zation of these modern combinations of
wealth, the committee finds that this is
one of the serious evils which lead to the
complaint against trusts for not being
content to earn a fair return on the
actual capital invested. They seek to
wring increased profits out of the con
sumers by rt-ason of an over-capitaliza
tion. The committee condemns the prac
tice of domestic capital operating in this
state under the incorporation of another
state, and especially New Jersey. The
committee succeeded in securing copies
of the factors’ agreements In use by all
of the different corporations Investigated
and finds that their use clinches the sys
tem of monopoly which has overspread
the country and renders such combina
tions of wealth permanent, by making
competition Impossible. It is obvious
that, as the federal courts have placed
so narrow a construction upon the limit
of their authority, no relief touching the
operation of factors’ agreements can be
expected from that quarter except
through the aid of a constitutional
amendment. It seems to us that the
operation of trusts, and especially fac
tors’ agreements can he satisfactorily
reached only by the exercise of a power of
general jurisdiction throughout the
United States and that any attempt to
prevent the evil by local legislation will
prove abortive or at least Insufficient.
A review 01 tne court s decision regard
ing factors' agreements leads the com
mittee to the opinion that the constitu
tional freedom of contract may not be
interfered with and that they can be
attacked only when It Is shown that they
attack the rights, constitutional liber
ties and the privileges of the people. The
committee recommends that the laws be
amended so as to place a limitation upon
the stock of corporations, especially as
regards foreign corporations operating in
this state and that foreign corporations
bo brought under the jurisdiction of the
laws of this state -which are provided
for the protection pf creditors and share
holders of domestic corporations. The
committee recommends and Is now pre
paring a bill carrying out these sugges
tions and will make provision for the
right of a citizen to begin a civil action
and secure an injunction against any
trust operating in this sta-te in violation
of these recommendations with the final
view of having the license of a foreign
corporation to do business in this state
revoked if it is found that such foreign
corporation Is not complying with all pro
visions of New York state laws.
This Is a method so drastic that It will
be further considered by the committee
before a bill Is finally submitted. An
important difficulty seems to be that of
securing the testimony necessary to a
judicial ascertainment of a violation of
any provisions of New York state laws
by a so-called trust or foreign corpora
tion. The committee is preparing a bill
which will empower the attorney general
to investigate a trust on the complaint
of any citizen of an alleged violation of
law. which hill will empower the attor
ney general to examine witnesses under
subpoenaes to be Issued on the attorney
general's ex parte application by a Jus
tice of the supreme court. This exam
ination of witnesses .by the attorney
genera! Is to be conducted In the pres
ence of a enurt justice and the testimony
is to be filed in the attorney general’s
office. This law will give immunity from
punishment to witnesses testifying on
subpoenas Issued by the attorney gen
eral.
The committee is no; yet satisfied that
it can frame a law restricting the oper
ation of factors' agreements which will
be constitutional.
(MARCUS HELD THE FORT.
Washington. Marc 9.—About 3:?,0 o’clock
;h!s afternoon Senator Marcus Hanna
caliAj on Poa:ma3ter-G'-n mi Gary. They
nemalhed In conference for about an
hljur. Callers who waited late were in
formed that It would he Impossible to
see Mr. Gary on account of his engage
ment with Senator Hanna. It was re
ported thoi’. the letter’s visit was in coni
nectiem with the appointment of a suc
cessor to Fourth Assistant Postmaster
General Maxwell, whose term •xpired to
day, but r.oching definite could be as
certained.
A MOTHER'S APPEAL.
Mrs. Walling Will Ask the Bryan Family
to Intercede for Her Boy.
Cincinnati, March 9.--Mrs. Walling,
mother of Alonzo Walling, one of the
condemned murderers of Pearl Bryan,
left Cincinnati for Green Castle. Ind.,
this afternoon. She will personally ap
peal to the Bryan family to consent to
the exercise of clemency by Gov. Bradley,BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
_ - : ~ * *f» , _____
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 1897. NUMBER 45
“TO BE" IS NOW THE WORD
Birmingham Carnival Society Is
a Fixture.
A MONSTER MASS MEETING
Which Resulted in Favor of Continued Mardi
Gras Carnivals.
SIXTY-ONE NEW MEMBERS ADDED
To tho Bos ter of the Soeioty-Emil Lesser
Be-electod President—Other Officers
Officers Are Named—Great En
thusiasm Prevailed.
The carnival has been decided a per
manent fixture In Birmingham!
The magnificent Elks' hall was well
filled last night with a representative
gathering of public-spirited citizens to
devise ways and means of meeting the
indebtedness of the lost carnival and of
continuing the celebrations.
The meeting was called to order by
Mr. E. Lesser, president of the Carnival
Society.
During the progress of the meeting
expressions of sentiment were made by
the following gentlemen:
Mr. E. Lesser, Maj. F. Y. Anderson,
Capt. J. B. M-c-rson, Maj. Charles Whte
lock and Messrs. M. V. Joseph, E. J.
MoCrossin, B. Steiner, F. P. O’Brien, J.
Asa Rountree, J. P. Mudd, Nat L. Miller,
M. A. Porter, Joseph Beitman, J. J.
OIRourke, August Schillinger, Erwin
Schilllnger, Mr. Lopez and Ben M. Ja
cobs. the weather man.
The concensus of opinion tended to
wards the continuance of the Mardi
Gras celebrations, and all present prof
fered assistance in every way. As one of
the gentlemen stated, the future celebra
tions were a maiter of necessity, as Bir
mingham must always progress and nev
er go backward or ‘‘show! the white
feather.”
Elks’ lodge 79, most of whose members
are already members of the Carnival so
ciety, pledged Itself to take and dispose
of 100 tickets to the grand entertainment
on Eapter Monday evening In the Rex
Coliseum. Others present guaranteed to
dispose of certain numbers of tickets or
pay for them themselves.
The question resolved itself Into one of
“to be or not to be” and It was unani
mously decided “to be.’’ The vast ben
efits of the carnival were shown and,
as one gentleman stated, "New Orleans
will have to hustle next year to beat our
own mardi gras.”
It was shown that a great deal of pre
judice had to be and was overcome and
that the next carnival would be easier of
success than the previous ones. The
present deficit would be met and the
society placed In excellent financial con
dition.
Maj. Meglemery stated that he had
been at the depot for ten years and
never remembered such a crowd of visit
ors coming to the city before unless it
was the doubtful exception of that at
tending the confederate reunion.
Sixty-one applications for member
ship were received, the youngest one be
ing Mr. Roy S. Peace, the talented but
youthful operator at the Morris hotel.
Mr. J. Asa Rountree offered the fol
lowing resolution:
- Resolved, That the thanks of the peo
ple of Birmingham are heartily returned
to the energetic and enterprising presi
dent of the society, Mr. E. Lesser, and his
able assistants for the success that they
made of the last carnival and that they
be urged to hold one another year.
Mr. Rountree, after submitting the
resolution, put the question, on account
of Mr. Lesser being chairman of the
meeting, and it was unanimously carried.
The applicants for membership were
asked to retire and their applications
were considered.
MEETING OF CARNIVAL SOCIETY.
At the close of the public meeting the
Carnival society was called to order by
President E. Lesser, Secretary L. Braun
was at the desk.
The regular order of business was sus
pended and the admission of six new
members was conferred.
The doors were thrown open and the
new members admitted to the meeting.
Mr. J. P. Mudd moved that In order
to stimulate the members to greater ac
tivity, that a prize of an elegant cos
tume be given to the one presenting the
greatest number of applicants, the cost
of the costume not to be less than $25.
This motion was amended so that the
member bringing the greatest number be
made a prince In the Mardi Gras, and
will receive the appropriate costume
from the society free of cost. The
amended motion was unanimously car
ried.
A motion that every member be a com
mittee of one to solicit new members,
made by Mr. E. J MoCrossln, was also
carried.
It was suggested that only members of
the Carnival society be allowed to par
ticipate in the Rex ball, except they be
visiting people.
Mr. Meglemery moved that the mat
ter be deferred until another meeting.
This motion was amended by Mr. Steiner
that the matter be referred to the execu
tive committee. The amended motion
was carried.
It was reported that there was a de
ficit of over $2,000. Four hundred dol
lars have been paid out since the carni
val, and it was requested that efforts be
made by the members to dispose of the
tickets and the money be turned into the
treasury in order to pay off the pressing
Indebtedness of some $1,200.
The election of officers was announced
as In order, and MaJ. F. Y. Anderson was
called to the chair.
Nominations were called for, but Mr.
N. L. Miller moved that the meeting,
when adjourned, should be adjourned
over until a meeting two weeks hence.
This motion was amended by Mr. J. W.
O'Neill, that the officers be elected at
this meeting. This motion was carired.
Nominations being in order, Mr. John
O'Neill nominated Mr.' E. Lesser, who
asked to be excused, but he was elected
unanimously.
For first vice-president. MaJ. F. Y. An
derson was nominated by Mr. M. V.
Jc-seph, and also unanimously elected.
So many nominations were made for
the remaining vice-presidents that, upon
ffiotlon of Mr. N. L. Miller, the slate was
cleared.
Upon motion of Mr. M. V. Joseph, a
committee of five members was appoint
ed to present nominations for thp un
filled offices. This committee consisted of
Messrs. F. Y. Anderson, J. M. Davidson,
J. P. Mudd. MaJ. Charles Wheelock and
August Schtllinger.
The committee retired to an ante-roo-m
to prepare its nominations.
After a recess of short duration, the
committee reported the following nomi
nations, which were concurred In:
Vice-Presidents—It. N. Rhodes, J. Aset
Rountree, M. A. Porter, August Schillln
ger.
Treasurer—B. Steiner.
Secretary—L. Braune.
Grand Marshal—E. J. McCrossin.
Executive Committee—M. V. Jtseph,
chairman; J. M. Davidson. C. E. 'McGlem
ery, J. W. Tomlinson, H. B. Gray. J. A.
VanHooee, Louis Schillinger, F. P.
O’B.'ien, ’William Reckling.
A vote of thanks was extended to Capt.
J. B. 'Morson and Troop D for their ex
cellent services at Rex's ball; also to the
following for their assistance to the Car
nival society:
Hawkins Lumber company; the press
of the city; B. P. O. Elks for use of
hall; the Schillinger Brewing company
refreshments.
NO SUPPLEMENTARY REPLY
To Be Offered by Greece to the Identical
Note of the Powers.
London. March 10.—In the house of
commons today Mr. G. N. Curzoo, par
liamentary secretary to the foreign office,
said In answer to a question by Sir Wil
liam Harcourt. the leader of the oppo
sition, that the government had not
heard that Greece had made or was in
tending to make a reply supplementary
to her answer to the identical note of
the powers in regard to the Greek occu
pation of Crete, a cessation of which the
powers demanded.
Mr. Curzcn read a telegram from the
British consul at Canea, announcing the
relief from a position of great peril of
523 men, 1.047 women and children, 340
soldiers and 1,000 Musselman refugees,
who had been besieged at Kandamos by
Christian insurgents. The dispatch
added that the rescued personS-AVcre em
[ barking on board -warships at Selino,
which place, the consul said, was in dan
ger of being attacked by Christians after
the departure of the warships with the
refugees.
THE PURITAN DISABLED.
Norfolk. Va., March 10.—The United
States monitor Puritan, which left
Charleston last Friday and encountered
heavy weather ail the way up the coast,
is now in Raleigh bay, near Durant's
Life Saving Sta'.ion, N. C., in a disabled
condition, and the cruiser Columbia has
gone to her assitanoe. The Puritan,
after leaving Charleston, was obliged to
anchor in Saturday’s storm, and shortly
afterwards it was discovered that one
of her engines was disabled and that she
could make but little headway against
the heavy sea. After an exceptionally
slow trip, however, she arrived off Hat
teras late Tuesday evening, when it was
discovered that the other engine* was
working bajly. The Puritan steamed
back and forth in front of the life saving
station, signalling her condition to the
life savers, who patrolled the beach all
night, so as to give immediate aid should
it be required. Capt. Bartlett managed
to keep off shore all night, how-ver, and
early this morning he wired the depart
ment that one engine was disabled and
he could not depend on the other, and
that he must have a convoy to tow him
to Hampton Roads. The cruiser Colum
bia at once left for Hatteras. and will re
turn with her tow tomorrow if tonight’s
gale does not increase.
NO WAR IN THE EAST.
Is the Belief of Leading London Bank
ers—Moderation of Tone.
London, March 10.—The leading Lon
don bankers now express their belief that
there will be no war in the east and a
general feeling of confidence Is returning.
Sir William Harcourt, leader of the op
position of the house of commons, has
moderated the pessimistic tone of his ut
terances and it is supposed that his
change of front is due to hi? having
learned that negotiations between Eng
land and France in regard to Egypt ore
being continued.
FRANCE TO THE FRONT.
Paris. March 10.—The Temps publishes
the announcement that active negotia
tions has been opened with a view to the
organization of a new regime in frete,
and intimates that the French govern
ment is especially concerned in the giv
ing of a satisfactory reality to the
scheme for an autonomous administra
tion of the affairs of that i?land.
’3TIIAHSVN XV NYiaa
Swells the Fund of the Tenessee Wo
man’s Building—Ovations.
Nashville, Tenn., March 10.—Hon. W. J.
Bryan’s visit to Nashville today was the
cause of a second ovation to the great
democratic leader. He is here today as
the guest of the Woman’s Board of the
Tennessee Centenlnal. A series of elab
orate social functions occupied his time
from noon until night. At 8 o'clock he
addressed 5,000 people in the great taber
nacle. The proceeds were devoted to the
woman’s building.
Tomorrow he will be a guest of the
Tennessee legislature and will address
that body at 10 o’clock in the morning.
He will also be the recipient of additional
social honors.
MUST THE STATE PAY?
Jackson. Miss., March 10.—The question
of the exemption of the state from all
taxation was argued before the supreme
court today in the case of the Mississippi
levee board v& the state. Under the
laws providing revenue for maintenance
of the levees, every bale of cotton raised
in the levee district is subject to a tax
of $1.00, and which is willingly paid by
most of the farmers Last ye3r the peni
tentiary board of control leased several
large farms in the levee district upon
which, with convict labor, about 7,000
bales of cotton were produced. The board
of control declined to pay the cotton tax
on the ground that the state pays no
taxes. The decision 1s anxiously awaited
by all private Individuals who are direct
ly interested, the maintenance of the
levees being of 'the flrBt importance.
-r--—
COSTLY CLERICAL ERROR.
Chattanooga, Tenn., March 10.—
Through a clerical error of the paying
teller, the First National bank of this
city is a loser to the extent of $3,600. A
few days since a Tennessee river logger
presented an order given by Snodgrass
& Field for $400 at the bank. Charles
Knoedler, the teller, opened his cash
drawer and tossed out eight bundles of
bank notes, each containing ten $50 bills.
The raftsman soon disappeared. The
mistake was not discovered until notice
of the payment was sent to the lumber
firm of Snodgrass & Field, who pro
duced the cancelled check made out on
its face for but $400. The raftsman was
seen in Knoxville yesterday spending
money lavishly.
IMMENSE LAND SUIT.
Jackson, Miss., Mtirch 10.—The state
land commissioner today received from
the United States laaid office at Wash
ington a certified list of 27,375 acres of
land or which patents are to be issued
to the Gulf and Ship Island railroad. In
Juno last patents were issued for 108,000
acres and 40,000 acres yet remain to be
listed by the Washington authorities.
These patents are to every alternate sec
tion within six miles of the Gulf and Ship
Island road, and issued to aid in its con
struction through the vast yellow pine
forests of South Mississippi, fifty miles of
I which Is now in operation from the gulf
I to Hattiesburg, due north.
RULES OF MEAT EIGHT
Siler Indicts Letters To the Two
Pugilists.
HIS VIEWS OF THE RULES
Which Will Govern the Greatest Contest Ever
Known—Twelve Points Which Are
Plain and Unvarnished,
Carson, Nev., March 10.—The most deli
cate subject In connection with the big
fight was broached today when George
Siler, the referee, submitted to Corbett
and Fitzsimmons his interpretation of
the Queensberry rules. Siler’s communi
cation, wtch was in the nature of a form
al letter, was not received with mani
festations of Joy at either camp. The big
fellows read their letters thoughtfully
and reserved Judgment. If Siler had any
doubts as to the propriety of his action
In outlining his views at this time, they
must foe dissipated now. The fighters
could never have agreed upon the rules
after entering the ring. Each man ap
pears to be playing possum Just now and
watting for the other to commit him
self. It Is not unwise, however, to pre
dict that a conference between Siler,
Stuart and the representatives of the
principals will be necessary before the
matter of rules Is finally settled. Mr.
Siler’s leltdr, which was handed to the
pugilists shortly after noon, read as fol
lows:
Carson City, Nev., March 10.
To James J. Corbett, Esq., and Robert
Fitzsimmons, Esq., Carson City, Nev.:
Gentlemen:—Herewith I hand you each
the rules of the Marquis of Queensbcrry,
under the provisions of which you ane to
contest for the heavy-weight champion
ship of the world in this city on March
17, 1897. Accompanying the rules, 1
hand you some suggestions and instruc
tions. These are based upon careful
study, research, -equity and fairness. You
are principals to what will be the great
est contest of modern times. You have
both trained carefully and assiduously.
The principals and public are alike en
grossed to an extent never before made
manifest in a like encounter. While It Is
a departure to give instructions to con
testants In a battle like this a week In
advance of the meeting, I think that the
importance of the affair fully warrants
this move. 1 am confident that you both
want to v.’in wholly and solely on your
merits. Neither of you can afTord to have
the slightest suspicion of doubt cloud the
title which will belong to the victor. To
that end I herewith hand you the rubs
and certain interpretations under which
you are to battle:
Rule 1—To be a fair, etand-up boxing
match in a twenty-four-foot ring, or as
near that ns practicable.
Rule 2—No wrestling or hugging al
lowed.
Rule 3—The rc-unda to be of three min
utes’ duration, and one ml-nute time be
tween rounds.
Rule 4—If either man fall, through
weakness or otherwise, he must get up.
unassisted, ten s?conds to be allowed for
him to do so, the other man meanwhlle
return to his corner, and when the fallen
man Is on his legs, the round Is to be
resumed and oontinued until the three
minutes have expired. If one man- fails
to come to the scratch in the ten second-,
allowed-, It shall be in the power of th
referee to give his award in favor of the
other man.
Rule 5—A mar. hanging on the ropes in
a helpless state with his toes off the
ground shall be considered down.
Rule 6—No seconds or any. other per
son to be allowed In the ring during the
rounds.
Rule 7—Should the contest be stopped
by any unavoidable Interference, the ref
eree to name time and place, as soon as
possible, for finishing the contest, so that
the match must be won or lost, unless the
backers of both men agree to draw the
stakes.
Rule 8—The gloves to be fair sized box
ing gloves of the best quality and new.
Rule 9—Should a glove burst or com
off, it must be repaired to the referee’s
satisfaction.
Rule 10—One man on one knee is con
sidered down and If struck the man is
entitled to the stakes.
Rule 11—No shoes or boots with springs
allowed.
Rule 12—The contest in all other re
spects to be .governed by the revised
rules of the London prize ring. The
first three rules need no comment, as
they are plain, simple and understood by
almost everybody.
.Rule 4, however requires some analysis,
as some of the points are often miscon
strued. The rule says: If either man
fall, through weakness or otherwise, he
must get up unassisted, ten seconds tq
be allowed him to do so, the other man
meanwhile to return to his corner. This,
of course was intended to prevent a man
from standing over his fallen opponent.
It probably never occurred to the framer
of the rules that at times a man either
falls or is knocked down in his oppon
ent’s corner. If then, the man on his
feet retires to his corner as the rule di
rects, he will be standing over his fallen
opponent, and doing just what the rules
mean he shall not do. To avoid all dis
putes on this score, I will simply Instruct
you In case of a knock-down to retire at
least ten feet from your fallen opponent,
to give him an opportunity to rise.
Rule twelve, which says: The contest
In ail other respects to be governed by the
revised rules of the London prize ring,
is, I consider, one of the most important
of the twelve rules, and appears to be
the bone of contention in almost every
contest. It has been thrust on all ref
erees, myself among them, to inquire of
the principals Whether they choose to
hit in clinches with one arm free and
also in breakaways. Invariably the prin
cipals agree not to hit in clinches, or on
breakaways, but they generally forget
all about their agreement and frequently
violate It. This, then, causes not .only
their seconds, but the spectators to cry
“foul!” every time a blow is delivered in
a clinch or a breakaway, and causes
much trouble and argument. It also
makes the duties of a referee arduous
and disagreeable and keeps him continu
ally in hot water. Furthermore, it gives
the referee an opportunity to decide a
contest on a technical foul which Is gen
erally unsatisfactory to everybody con- |
cemed. Neither of you. I am sure, de
sire to win the coming contest on a tech
nical foul, and to avoid any such con
tingency through hitting in clinches with
a free arm, and in breakaways, I will
rule: That you be permitted to hit in
clinches with one arm free, and also on
breakaways. ‘With, this interpretation
of this rule announced a week before the
contest, you will both have time to prac
tice this important point and will have
no cause for complaint should either of
you ba caught oft your guard. Pivot
blows, missing with either hand and
whipping back with-the elbow, meeting
an, opponent with <rr deliberately strik
ing Mm with the eSbow or knees are
(Continued on Fourth Page.) i
THE SENATEJS ADJOURNED
Wood, of Kentucky, to Await the
Committee’s Action
ON HIS APPOINTMENT
Hoar Offers Two Amendments to the Rules—
Both Factions Hold Caucuses Without
Results—A Rumor Denied.
Washington, March 10.—'There was an
unusually large attendance of senators
at the opening of today's session. Ex
Senator Ransom, of North Carolina, now
minister to Mexico, was on the floor and
was cordially greeted by his former as
sociates.
The vice-president laid before the sen
ate a communication from povemor
Bradley, of Kentucky, setting forth that
he had appointed Andrew T. Wood, of
Montgomery county, Kentucky, as sena
tor from that state, to supply a vacancy
which had been created during the re
cess of the legislature—that body not be
ing in session—the appointment to be in
force until the next meeting of the leg
islature and until the election of a suc
cessor.
The communication having been read,
a motion was made by Mr. Hoar that
Mr. Wood be now admitted to take the
oath.
Mr. Gorman—The senator, of course,
understands the question Involved in this
matter. I move, as a substitute, that the
communication and credentials be refer
red to the committee on privileges and
elections.
Mr. Hoar—Under present circumstan
ces I do not expect to antagonize the mo
tion of the senator from Maryland.
Mr. Gorman’s substitute was agreed to,
and Mr. Woods’ credentials were referred
to the committee on privileges and elec
tions.
Mr. Hoar gave notice of two amend
ments to the rules, which were read.
They were both radical innovations upon
the practice of the senate for a century
past. The first, according to the notice
presented by Mr. Hoar, was "to enable
the senate to act on legislation when it
desires, after reasonable debate.” It pro
vided that when any bill or resolution
had been under consideration more than
one day any .senator could demand that
debate be closed. If a majority of the
senators so decided, there should be a
vote without further delay, and no mo
tion should be in order pending the vote
but one. to adjourn or -take a recess.
The other w-as In relation to calls of the
senate, so that if a suggestion be made
of the absence of a quorum the presid
ing officer, Instead of instantly ordering
a call to be made, shall determine the
matter and report whether there Is or is
not a quorum present. If there Is the
business shall proceed; and if not the roll
b- to be called. The purpose of these pro
posed changes was stated to be "to pre
vent the Interruption of business by un
necessary calling of the roll."
Mr. Shoup, of Idaho, presented a memo
rial from the legislature of Idaho asking
for the annexation of portions of 'Wyom
ing to that state.
Mr. Warren, (rep. of Wyoming, refer
red to the memorial as an attempt to
have a portion of a good and fertile state
added to a somewhat dry and barren
one, and intimated that opposition to it
would be made In proper time.
The senate then proceeded to executive
business, and at 12:40 p. m. adjourned
without day.
The president today nominated and the
senate confirmed W. R. Jewell to be post
master at Danville, 111., to succeed John
Beard,- whose nomination was sent In
during the previous administration and
never confirmed.
During the executive session today at
tention was called to the fact that it hav
ing agreed to adjourn until 11:30 o’clock
next Monday, an embarrassing condition
of affairs would result should any nomi
nations be sent to the senate on that day.
'Mr. McKinley has called an extra session
of the Fifty-fifth congress for March
15. The present special session of the
senate will end at noon of that day Any
nominations sent in would therefore have
to be acted upon within the half hour thn
body would be In session, or they would
fail and the president would have to send
them in again during the regular session.
To obviate such a condition of affairs it
was agreed that the best thing was to
adjourn sine die, and this was done.
The senate was this morning advised
that there would be no Important nomi
nations before next week.
me Aiasaan oounaary treaty was re
ported from the committee.
The republican senatorial steering com
mittee met this morning in Senator Alli
son’s room, but no action of any kind
was taken. The members received their
notice late, and all did not arrive until
the conference was breaking up. While
no member of the committee was able to
offer a tangible solution of the existing
difficulty in connection with the filling of
the vacancies on the committees, it was
the general impreselon that no combina
tion having for its purpose the organiza
tion, of the senate committees by the sil
ver vote could be made effective. Sev
eral members of the committee, who as
individuals, have given this question the
most painstaking consideration, and have
held numerous conferences with leaders
of both factions of the democratic party
and the bolting republicans, have reach
ed the conclusion that the differences
between these elements are so great and
the demands made so incapable of be
ing complied with, that it will be utterly
Impossible for the opposition to the re
publicans to concentrate upon any par
ticular plan of action.
For this reason, members of the com
mute state that the statue quo In the
senate will be maintained, and that ul
timately the vacancies will be filled with
the republicans retaining the chairman
ships, although, owing to populist repre
sentation on some of these committees,
it will not be possible for the republicans
to fully control the action of some. An
other meeting of the steering committee
will be held tomorrow.
A denial Is made to published state
ments that a compromise has been
agreed to whereby the republicans are
to retain control until December, when
the regular session convenes and that at
that time the contest for the control of
the senate is to be waged.
The democratic steering committee
held a short conference after the senate
adjourned today, but no result came of it.
While the members of both steering
committees are very non-committal, it is
understood that an agreement will be
reached whereby the republicans will fill
the vacancies in the committee caused by
the retirement of the men who were ap
pointed as republicans and that the dem
ocrats will fill their vacancies.
Mr. Burrows, of Michigan, appears to
be slated for the place of Mr. Sherman
on the finance committee. This com
mittee will be favorable to a tariff bill,
but not necesaar'jy a gold committee.
Senator Jones (silver, Nev.) will vote
for a tariff bill without a free silver rider
being attached and will oppose putting
on a rider If the free silver men attempt
It In committee.
Mr. Platt, of New York, made a strong
fight for the place on the finance com
mittee, but his long absence from the
senate militated against him.
Mr. Allison will remain as chairman
of the committee on appropriations, with
a good working majority behind him.
With this condition of affairs in that
committee, neither Senators Teller nor
Pettigrew will be disturbed.
Senators Teller, Pettigrew and Cannon,
three of the bolting silver republicans are
quoted in dispatches in the morning pa
pers as having yesterday during their
visit to the white house, assured the
president that they would not stand In
the way or object to any tariff scheme
that might be suggested by the new ad
ministration. /These senators w4sh the
Southern Associated Press to say for
them that they called upon Mr. McKinley
simply to pay their respects and they
add with emphasis that during the time
they were in the presence of the execu
tive the subjects of tariff, silver and pa
tronage were not mentioned or referred
to in the most Indirect manner by either
of the parties.
LONG'S FIRST WORK.
Will Advertise For Bids For Steel Ar
mor—The Columbia.
Washington, March 10.—Secretary Long
will issue the advertisement tomorrow
for 8,000 tons of nickel steel armor for
battleships numbers 7, 8 and 0, proposals
for which will be opened April 6. By
law the cost of this armor must not av
erage over $300 per ton.
The trlpple screw cruiser Columbia,
which lias been ordered to the rescue of
the monitor Puritan, can scarcely reach
her destination before tomorrow morn
ing The distance is over 260 miles from
Hafcptan Il iads and the Columbia is not
sccmre in her present condition to run
over eighteen knots an hour as a maxi
mum. Capt. Sands telegraphed the navy
department that he would, leave at 3
o’clock, which would bring him off Hat
taras about 5 o'clock tomorrow morning.
In the meantime the naval authorities
hope the gale will not increase and that
Capt. Bartlett, of the Puritan, will be
able to keep off the shore. Secretary
Long has done the best he could by or
dering the fastest ship in American wa
ters to the Puritan's relief, the Columbia
luckily being in that vicinity. Other
wise it might have taken several days to
effect a rescue.
SUGAR SCHEDULE FIXED.
Washington. Marcti 10—The sugar
schedule was finished today by the re
publican members of the ways and
means committee. The conclusions
reached were foreshadowed in the South
ern Associated Press dispatch of last
night. (The differential duty was placed
at one-eighth of a cent a pound. A
countervailing duty against bounty-pay
ing countries, was fixed so as to equalize
the net amount of the bounty, that is to
say, the exact amount of the bounty less
any internal revenue tax levied. The
woolen schedule was taken up at the af*
ternoon and evening sessions and sev
eral tentative rates adopted, hut another
session will be necessary before the
schedule is completed.
CONGRATULATED THEMSELVES.
Washington, March 10.—The Alaskan
boundary treaty was, after a short dis
cussion, ordered to bu favorably repre
sented. Much of the time of the com
mittee this morning was consumed in
self-congratulalions over the change in
tha administration and the discussion of
the probability of a freer exchnnge of
views and information between the exec
utive and legislative branches of the
government owing to the elevation of
Mr. Sherman, the former chairman of
the committee, to the premiership of the
administration. Mr. Davis, the new
chairman, was also congratulated by his
associates during the informal talk
around the committee table.
HAD LITTLE TO DO.
Washington, March 10.—The extra ses
sion which adjourned sine die at 1:20
o’clock this afternon had but little work
to do. Last Friday it confirmed the cabi
net. Monday the nominee to fill the va
cancy existing in the office of the pen
sion agent at Detroit was confirmed; to
day a postmaster at Danville, 111., was
nominated and confirmed. This was the
sum total of all the leaders of the sen
ate.
COMES UP FRIDAY.
Washington, March 10.—The senate
committee on foreign relations did -not
take up the general treaty of arbitration
between the United States and Great
Britain at Its meeting this morning. The
subject was not mentioned except in con
nection with a motion, which was agreed
to. that a special meeting be held Friday
for the purpose of considering that con
vention. __
OFF TO GREECE.
Two Local Sons of the Greek Govern
ment Will Leave at Once In Response
to King George's Call.
Two of the local Gre«k merchants have
decided to go to the assistance of King
George at once. Yesterday afternoon
Joe Stratkial, a fruit dealer on Nine
teenth street, near Third avenue, sold out
his place of business and will leave In
company with a fellow Greek for his na
tive land.
The fruit dealer on the corner of (Twen
tieth street and Fourth avenue will go
to Greece as soon as he can dispose of
his place of business.
Now, that the first man has gone there
are others willing and anxious to go, but
have decided to await the call of King
George, when they will respond promptly.
It is understood that a rate of 175 for
the round flip has been made from this
city to Greece. Quite a large company
will leave tills country the last of the
week and the Birmingham Greeks will
be well represented in Its ranks.
The Greeks’ patriotism and love for
their native land overcomes all obstacles
and no ties of attachment to their adopt
ed homes seem to be able to keep them
from hurrying to Greece and aiding
King George, their beloved ruler. In his
warfare for Christianity.
A SERIOUS ASPECT.
Berlin, March 10 —The National Zel
tung says the parliamentary situation
in Germany has assumed a serious as
pect. Vice-Admiral Boilman is deter
mined to resign if he is unable to carry
out all the essential demands of his es
timates. The Freisinnlge Zeltung an
nounces that Vice-Admiral Hollman has
already tendered his resignation of the
post of secretary of state for the admir
alty, but that the emperor has refused to
accept it.__
DIAMOND DUST.
Philadelphia, Pa., March 10.—Manager
Stallings and eighteen players of the
Philadelphia club, left here this evening
on the steamer City of Macon for Savan
nah,. Ga., whence they will go to Augusta
and engage In spring practice. The Phil
adelphia players have all been signed,
the list being completed yesterday when
Cross and Clements handed In thelc con
tracts.
NO FURTHEHJEVELOPMENTS
In the Hold Up of the Louisville
& Nashville Fast Mail.
SHERIFF O’BRIEN RETURNS
Accompaif^ by One of His Deputies, but
Gives Out Nothing.
/ _
PLENOF DYNAMITE FOUND
j /
At tlQBoone of the Hold-Up-Amount of
booty Secured by the Robbers Not
Given Out, Though It Will
• Prove Considerable.
The hold-up of Louisville and Nash
ville fast mail No. 4, which occurred
about 11:40 o'clock Tuesday night, near
Calear, a full account of which appeared
in yesterday’s State Herald, was tho
talk of the city yesterday.
Interest in the hold-up was more gen
eral because of Its being the third In n
short space of time to occur near this
city, the other hold-ups being on the
Greenville and Birmingham division of
the Southern, as is well remembered by,
readers of this paper.
THE BOOTY SECURED.
It is absolutely Impossible to state the
exact amount of money and valuables
procured by the bandi.s, as the express
company officials, as Is usual, are reti
cent about giving out such matters. It
is known, however, that the total of
value of money and g recovered by
tho robbers will go beyond $5,000, and
will perhaps reach $10,000. It was stated
that one package alone hud $5,000 in It,
besides packages with smaller sums.
Messrs. Rosenstihl, jewelers of this city,
had a package taken, the valuation of
Which was $1100.
SHERIFF O'BRIEN RETURNS.
Sheriff O’Brien returned yesterday at
noon on No. t, accompanied by I>■ -puty
Armstrong. His appearance and that of
his deputy indicated that they had seen
service. The sheriff naturally was reti
cent about giving out information, fear
ing Justice might be thwarted. He
said, however, to a State Herald reporter
that on arriving at the scene of the hold-*
up he found a large quantity of dyna
mite lying beside the track, each stick be
ing prepared for eerviee by having a fuse
in the end. The dynamite bore the ap
pearance of having been trampled upon
as each one was broken in several pieces.
After finding the dynamite he order'd
the dogs loosed and all of them, with on4
instinctive accord, made off in an easter
ly direction for about 160 feet, baying as
they went. Suddenly all of them halted,
and on coming up with them it was found
that a clump of trees was at hand. Here
was evidence to indicate that the robbers
had mounted horses and rode away, as
horse hoof prints were plentiful.
It was Impossible to go further with
the dogs, and on foot the hoof prints
were followed some distance, until at 5
o’clock a veritable cloud-burst came
upon the posse, drenching them and ob
literating all marks upon the ground.
The sheriff left some of his trusty men
behind him engaged In the work, and it
is dollars to dimes that more and better
news will be heard within the next
twenty-four hours.
SCOVEL RELEASED.
Not Through Intervention of Uncle Sam,
However, Was He Liberated.
Washington, March 10.—The state de
partment has received a cable message
from Consul General Lee at Havana,
announcing that the New York corre
spondent, Sylvester Scovel, was released
today.
It Is learned that the release of Scovel
by the Spanish authorities was secured
through private representations, and not
by any application by the United States
either through Secretary Sherman or
Secretary Olney.
Soon after Scovel’s answer, Mr. Walter
J. Mullins, his brother-in-law. and Mr.
John McSweeney, of Wooster. O . his at
torney, came to Washington to solicit
the intervention of the government in his
behalf. Secretary Olney declined to
take any steps in the mafter for the rea
son that Scovel had once been expelled
from Cuba and had returned to the island
in violation of his parole, under a false
name and a false passport. Mr. Scovel's
relatives then sought the good offices
of the Spanish minister, who promised to
use his efforts to secure Scovel's release
on certain conditions, which were:
First. That it should be regarded as a
personal and not a diplomatic matter,
EO that it might not be used as a pre
cedent in the future; second. That the
newspaper agitation In regard to Scovel's
arrest should be stopped, and third, That
Scovel’s father should make an appeal
to the government of Spain for Scovel’s
release as an act of mercy and not as an
act of Justice.
Mr. Scovel’s relatives accepted these
conditions and have done their best to
carry them out. The Rev Mr. Scovel,
who Is president of Wooster University,
sent a very eloquent appeal on behalf of
his son which Mr. Dupuy De Lome, the
Spanish minister, endorsed with a recom
mendation for the young man’s Immedi
ate release without trial, and forwarded
It to the Spanish authorities. There has
been considerable correspondence on the
subject between Madrid, Havana and the
Spanish legation In Washington, but the
intervention of the department of state
has never been exercised or requested
since the original interview between Mr.
Scovel’s relatives and Secretary Olney.
.O ■— ■ ■—
NUNEZ AT 'JACKSONVILLE. >
Said to Have Visited Pensacola In the
Interest of an Expedition.
Jacksonville, Fla* March 10.—Gen. Em
ilio Nunez returned to Jacksonville yes
terday. Gen. Nunez has been absent
from the city several days on a matter of
business. He left with a body of Cu
bans for Pensacola., Fla., a short time
ago. where an expedition was reported as
being on foot.
THE BERMUDA HEARD FROM.
Jacksonville, Fla., March 10.—The
steamer Bermuda arrived at Femandlna, ,
late last night and Is still there. Ru
mors that she was seized are not con
firmed tonight. It is thought here that
there Is no foundation for them.
ANOTHER TELLER GONE. '
Newburyport. Maas.. March 10.—Percy;
Dame, the teller of the Merchant*’ Na
tional bank, has disappeared, leaving a
shortage of *7,500. He admitted taking
money at intervals for twelve years.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 ' BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1897. NUMBER 46^
H, CLAY EVANSGETS A PLUM
Will Be Appointed Commissioner
of Pensions.
ON TO THE WHITE HOUSE
Continues the March of Patriotic Office Hunters
—The President Seeks Time to
Prepare His Message.
Washington. March 11.—Hon. H. ' C.
Evans, of Chattanooga, Tenn., who has
been In Washington since just before the
inauguration day, left for home this
afternoon. It Is said that he bore with
him the assurance that he should be ap
pointed the commissioner of pensions.
Five applications for the position of as
sistant secretary of the treasury were
filed wdth Gage today. The applicants
were William Odlin, of Massachusetts;
J. H. Keatlc-y, of Minnesota; W. B. How
ell. of New Jersey; W. T. Rockwood, of
New York, and S. R. 'McLean, of New
York. W. W. Bates, of Illinois, made
application for commissioner of naviga
tion, and J. A. Ockervon, of Missouri, for
superintendent of tlie coast and geodetic
survey. There is absolutely not a single
office at the disposal of Secretary of War
Alger, even his confidential secretary be
ing subject to civ'll service rules govern
ing appointments. But, knowing this,
nearly 3,000 applications for office have
been filed wl.h him. There was a notice
able diminution this morning In the office
seeking force that have marched on the
White House slnfce the new president en
tered it. Bright sunshine and balmy air
made it a day to be spent out doors
rather than in, and this may have had
some effect on the people who want to
serve their country. Many gentlemen
were willing, however, to sit for hours
In the closely filled corridor that leads to
the president’s room in the hope of get
ting to his ear. But the real reasons for
the slump In attendance undoubtedly are
the new rules for the reception of vis
itors and the hints the president has giv
en that he will not give much considera
tion to the smaller offices until the tariff
bill Is in a fair way towards final dispo
sition. Then again, he has had little time
to write the message to be presented to
congress next Monday, and that Is a
matter that cannot wait, while office
seekers can. Several men of prominence
who had nothing to ask and nothing to
expect from the administration dropped
In to pay their respects this morning.
Senator Mason predated the names of
four of hit constituents for federal po
sitions. Huntington Wilson, of Chicago,
wants to be secretary of legation at
Paris; the Hon. Thomas B. Needles Is
after the Indian commlssionership; Prof.
Lowey would like to go abroad In a dip
lomatic and consular capacity, and Mr.
Elliott, of Chicago, Is an applicant for
the position of assistant attorney-gen
eral. Secretary Sherman today appoint
ed William B. Galtree, of Marietta, O..
ns his confidential clerk, at a salary of
$1,200 per year. Mr. Galtree wms assist
ant secretary to Gov. McKinley for sev
eral years. Mrs. J. Walter Blandford. of
the District of Columbia, has been ap
pointed private secretary to Attorney
General McKenna, a pof-Uion he formerly
held whon Mr. Olney was at the head of
that department.
THE STEAMER BERMUDA
Applies For Clearance Papers From
Fernandina.
Washington, March 11.—A dispatch
was received at the treasury department
today from the collector of customs at
Fernandina, Fla., stating that the steam
er Bermuda had applied for clearance
papers from that port. The destination
of the vessel was not given and until this
Is stated the papers will not be Issued.
The new gunboats Wilmington and He
lena built at Newport News, have been
reported to the navy department as
ready for official acceptance trials, and
the former will he speeded over the meas
ured course in Long Island sound on the
21st, instant, the latter following two
days later. These useful vessels are
designed for service of the China sta
tion and in other localities, where their
light draft will enable them to enter
shallow harbors and ascend rivers.
They must run at the minimum rate of
13 knots per hour, maintained for four
consecutive hours. Confidence is ex
pressed that they will exceed this with
ease, e
BANK PRESIDENT
Indicted For Violating the National
Banking Laws.
Louisville* Ky., March 11.—J. H. Mc
Knight, president of the suspended na
tional bank was indicted by the grand
jury at noon today on the charge of vio
lating the national banking act.
The indictment embraces ninety-one
counts and Includes nearly every offense
embraced in the law.
Indictments were also found against
R. E. King, president of the board of
aldermen, C. J. Jcnne, J. E. Leather
man, R. O. Bruner and F. A. Britt, whp
are charged with conspiring with Presi
dent McKnight to misappropriate the
funds of the bank.
WHITE RIVER WRECK.
No More Bodies Recovered—Twelve Lives
Thought to Be Lost.
Evansville, Ind., March 11.—No bodies
have been recovered today from the
wreck of the Evansville and Terre Haute
passenger train in White river, near here,
yesterday morning. The death of Her
bert Allen, of Evansville, who was a door
keeper at the last session of the Indiana
legislature, is confirmed today. It Is also
known that W. B. Phillips, of Fort
Wayne, is among the killed. It is be
lieved by many here that there are twelve
or fifteen bodies in the wreck The water
is rising, and nothing can be done in the
search until the river falls, whioh may
not be until several days.
CANADA COTTON MILLS.
Will Curtail Production Until the Market
Improves.
Halifax, N. S., March 11.—Many of the
cotton mills in eastern Canada have de
cided to curtail production until the mar
ket improves. Several of them have been
running on short time, and today a no
tice was posted at the mills of the Hali
fax Cotton oompany announcing a re
duction of running time to three days
a week.
COUNTY SAFE BLOWN OPEN.
LaGrange, Ind., March 11.—The La
Grange county safe in the court house
was blown open at 2 o’clock this morn
ing and $400 was carried away. Two
thousand pennies Just received from the
mint was a portion of the plunder.
Sheriff Kauffman has no clue.
LOANS OBTAINED
To Pay Duty on Goods Held In
Bonds.
New York. March 11.—Loans to the
amount of $400,000 have been obtained
from New York banks within a week to
pay duty on goods held In bonds In an
ticipation of higher duties under the
new tariff. One loan for $500,000 was se
cured today.
NATIONAL PLATFORM ENDORSED.
By the Democratic Convention, of Chi
cago,
Chicago, March 11—The following ticket
was nominated this afternoon by the
democratic city convention in North Side
Turner Hall;
Mayor—Carter Harrison, Jr., by accla
mation.
Treasurer—Ernest Hulmel, by acclama
tion.
Attorney—Miles J. Devine.
Clerk—W. J. Loeflier.
A number of prominent members of the
people’s party occupied seats In the con
vention.
The platform adopted, after dealing
with municipal matters, endorses the na
tional democratic platform adopted In
this city last July.
"LAND POOR”
Causes the Milwaukee Building and Loan
Association to Suspend.
Milwaukee, Wis, March 11—The Nation
al Building and Loan association of Mil
waukee went into the hands of a receiver
today. Judge Austin appointed Martin
W. Sherman, secretary of the association,
to take charge and wind up the affairs.
The two causes which led to the receiv
ership were the Inability of the company
to make loans and the fact that it is ' land
poor”—possessing realty that is unpro
ductive, too expensive to hold and for
which there is no market at the present
time.
The association was Inc irporated May
10, 1SS5, with a capital stock of $5,000,000.
NtfPLAN REACHED
By the Republican Senatorial Steering
Committee—Vacancies to Be Filled
With the Existing Order.
Washington, March 11.—The republi
can senatorial steering committee met
this afternoon 'to come to some conclu
sion, if possible, on the questions pertain
ing to the organization of the commit
tees. More than two hours was con
sumed in the discussion, but no plan was
agreed "upon. In addition to the seven
mejnbens of the committee, Messrs. Alli
son, Hale, Aldrich, Cullom, Davis, Carter
and Sewall, there were present by in
vitation Senators Mason, of Illinois; Fair
banks, of Indiana; Foraker, of Ohio, and
Wellington, of Maryland. The Informal
talk disclosed the fact that the situation
had been cautiously discussed with lead
ing democrats by individual members
of the committee, from which the posi
tive conviction was reached that there
would be formed no effectual combina
tion that could take the organization of
the committees from the republicans. It
is the impression that immediately after
the extra session convenes the committee
vacancies will be tilled in accordance
with the existing order of things and
that this will be accomplished without
material opposition.
UNCLE SAM'S WARSHIPS.
Pleasing Incident of the Maine’s Visit
to New Orleans.
New Orleans, March 11.—After a. stay
of exactly two weeks at this city Uncle
Sam’s two fine warships, the Texas and
Maine, turned their prows seaward this
morning at 9 o’clock and by sundown
were well out into the gulf en route to
Port Royal.
A pleasing incident of the Maine’s visit
was the presentation of a handsome silver
loving cup to the vessel. It bears the in
soripti n. ’’Presented to the United States
Battleship Maine by the Natives of
Maine Now Residing in New Orleans.”
Thousands of people lined the banks of
the/ river and the whistles of all the craft
In port and all the factories gave the ves
sels a parting salute as they steamed
down the river.
LEGISLATURE ADJOURNS.
Without Passing Appropriation Bills for
the Departments,
ments.
Little Rock, Ark., March 11.—The leg
islature adjourned sine die at noon to
day without having passed any of the
appropriation bills for the executive and
judicial departments of the state govern
ment and the various charitable and ed
ucational institutions. The senate, as
has been the custom since the framing
of the present constitution, refused to
elect a president pro tern., leaving the
state without a successor to Gov. Jones
in case of accident or death. The upper
branch of the assembly is responsible
for the failure to pass the appropriation
bills, as the senators positively refuse to
extend the session, and the governor will
be compelled to call an extra session.
STORM AT NASHVILLE.
Nashville, Tenn., March 11.—An electri
cal storm followed by a hail storm that
frightened pedestrians almost out of their
wits, visited this city at 8:10 this evening.
Hail as large as hen eggs and in some
instances almost the size of half a brick,
did considerable damage to the numerous
plate glass windows in the business sec
tion. The din created by the falling hail
stones was Intensified by innumerable
objects flying about. Several of the
Centennial buildings are minus windows,
but otherwise uninjured
MINNESOTA BANK ASSIGNS.
St. Paul, Minn., March 11.—William
Dawson and William Dawson, Jr., late
yesterday made personal assignments,
resulting In the failure of the Bank of
Minnesota, of which they were president
and cashier, respectively. A personal
statement, made several weeks ago by
the older Dawson, gave his liabilities as
$1,600,000, of which $765,000 was his per
sonal indebtedness.
HUNT'S MURDERERS CAPTURED.
Atlanta, Ga_, March 11.—(Budd Brooks
and Grady Reynolds, the murderers of
M.’ C. Hunt, were brought here tonight
from Jackson county for safe keeping.
They would probably have been lynched
If they had not been removed.
TAKES STRYCHNINE.
Atlanta, Ga., March 11.—Andrew Wylie,
a butcher took strychnine today in a
meat market on Whitehall street and died
In fifteen minutes.
He could not get work and was des
pondent
BOB FITZSIMMONS BALKS
On the Rulings of Referee
Siler.
GENTLEMAN JIM SATISFIED
Corbett Refused to Shake Hands With Fitz—
Calls Him a Blackguard—Fitz Says
He’ll Embalm Him.
Carson. Nev., March 11.—Bob Fitzsim
mons has balked on Referee Siler's inter
pretation of the Queensberry rules. His
specific objections are not stated, but
he emphatically declares that he Will not
stand for any such conception of the
rule® as that outlined by the referee.
Cqr'bett, on the contrary, is perfectly
satisfied with Siler's decision.
“The referee should have the final say
In all contests,” was the way Jim put it
this evening. "When two men are spar
ring they invariably forget their promise
not to hit in breakaways, and one or the
other usually gets the worst of it. Sulli
van nearly reachtd my Jaw with a right
swing. We parted from the first clinch
in our battle at New Orleans. It never
occurred to me at the time that he had
committed a foul, end 1 smashed right
back at him in the next br.akaway, re
gardless of my promise to the referee.
"When 1 fought Jackson we both
agreed to hit af.er a clinch, and I never
heard an objection from anybody. Ii
Fitzsimmons is such a marvel at deliv
ering short-runge blows he would be
thankful for a ruling which might give
him an advantage. According to my no*
tions, Siler's ultimatum should be accept*
ed by both of us, and there is no necessity
for further talk on the subject. How
ever, if Fitzsimmons can show any flaw
in the rulings which might hurt his
chances of winning, I will gladly meet
him half way on a reasonable com
promise.”
The whole matter of rules was laid be
fore Dan Stuart this afternoon, and he
invited Martin Julian, representing Fitz
simmons, and W. A. Brady, Corbett's
manager, to meet George Siler and him
self in his office tomorrow and talk it
over.
Fitzsimmons reversed his methods to
day, beginning work with the punching
bag after breakfast, afterwards taking
the regulation grind with Roeber on the
wrestling mat, and Stenzler, with the
gloves. He has an idea that as the fight
will take place In the morning it would
be the best policy for him to become ac
customed to boxing at that hour of the
day. His face wore a serious look ail
the while he was sparring and he had
little or nothing to say.
Mrs. Fitzsimmons, with a horse and
buggy, paced her husband into town
after luncheon. Bob swung in after the
rig and never lost a step during the
whole Journey, winding up fresh at the
end1 of the three miles, when he took the’
same gait home and spent the evening
playing with Bob, Jr.
Corbett Jogged down the hill to Em-'1
pire as a starter this morning, turning"
the angle there and coming home by
way of Carson, eight milts. He left
his trainers behind on the home stretch
and sprinted for nearly a quarter of a
mile into Shaws Springs. The usual af
ternoon pot pourri of hand ball, bag
punching and sparring was disposed of
without a change.
When Corbett was asked today why he
refused to take Fitzsimmons’ extended
hand when they met on the prison road
yesterday he bristled up and said: "Fot
this reason: That man has blackguard
ed me in public and through the press
time and again. He has called me a cur.
a dub, an invalid and a bluffer. When
he proves a portion of his statements
by putting me out on March 17. I will
shake with him, not. till then. What is
the use of appearing friendly to a man
when you are not?”
The Cornishman did not seem to heed
the snub he had received. All that
caught him was Corbett’s display of 111
temper.
“I always thought he was ‘nutty,’ ” de
clared Bob. “The first punch I give him
St. Patrick's day will Joggle bis brain
and lie will go to pieces. Did not he lose
his head when Mitchell hit him, and ain’t
I as clever as Mitchell? This is a go d
thing; I’m glad I did not turn back yes
terday when they told me I was likely
to run into the pompadour. He looks
like a mummy and I’ll embalm him when
we get together next week.”
Tickets sold like hot tamales today,
and at 6 p. m. the total sales amounted
to a trifle under 7,000.
A few boxes were thrown together at
the arena today and a force of painters
were put to work numbering the seats.
The weather is mild and bracing.
BETTING IS SLOW.
St. Louis, March 11.—Betting on the
big fight is slow here. Three days ago
a few bet3 were placed at 7 to 5 on Cor
bett, but now 6 to 5 finds no takers. At
the Brooklyn pool room an offer of $1,200
to $1,000 on Corbett has stood on the
blackboard four days without accept
ance.
JOINT TRAFFIC RATE
Fixed on. Steel Ralls Until Jan. 30th.
From Bessemer to Points In
Several Adjoining States.
New York, March 11.—The board of
managers of the joint traffic association
have fixed a rate of $4.95 per ton on steeJ
rails until June 30, from Bessemer to
New Orleans and points throughout Miss
issippi, Louisiana, Arkansas and Ala
bama.
______ «
STILL IN THE RACE.
Blackburn 'Denies That He Has With
drawn From the Race.
Louisville, Ky., March II.—Ex-Senator
Joe Blackburn arrived at Lexington this
morning and gave prompt denial to the
statement that he had withdrawn from
the senatorial race fn favor of some one
who might command the entire strength
of the democratic members of the legis
lature. The republican senatorial cau
cus meets at Frankfort tomorrow night.
Ex-Representative W. G. Hunter willb?
the nominee, and he will be elected un
less the sound money men join the Black
burn democrats In making his election ■
Impossible.
SILVER CONVENTION CALLED.
Ooi£ha, Neb., Mjftrch 11.—As a result of
the recent conference of the free silver
Republicans held in this city, a call has
been issued for a state convention at
Lincoln, March 25, for the purpose of
naming a provisional national commit
tee and for tha transaction of any other
business that may properly come before
the conference.
GREEK PAYSJHE COUPON
King George Expects No Aid
From Relatives.
TO DO HER OWN FIGHTING
And No Disorderly Element of Any Filibusters
Will Be Allowed in the Military
Service.
■
F
Athens, March 11.—King George au
thorizes the Southern Associated Press
to state that he does not expect nor has
he at any time since the present troubles
arose, expected, either advice or aid from
his relatives on or near the thrones of
Europe, but relies entirely upon the
justice of Greece’s cause. The king ad
mitted that he had expected the most
from the Prince of Wales, whose wife is
his counsel at Canea. But his majesty
added Billotl was a titled personage and
was enabled to spread official lies con
cerning the troubles in the island of
Crete, which found ready believers.
The Greek government has deposited
the sum of money necessary to pay the
coupon on the debt.
SITUATION IMPROVING.
Athens, March 11.—The situation here
is improving. The city is quieting and
apart from occasional outbursts of en
thusiasm on the part of the populace,
there Is very little of an exciting nature
to engage public attention.
Amil Cipetiani, the Italian socialist
agitator, arrived here today for the pur
pose of entering the Greek service. The
party was met by a mob, which included
a number of students, and were cheered
almost incessantly as they marched
through the streets.
The government denies the report that
the military authorities are forming a
foreign legion. The authorities wish it
to be understood that they do not de
sire any disorderly element of any fili
busters or adventurers In the military
service, a small number of Greeks to
fight the battles of Greece being availa
ble.
Witnesses of the arrivatr of Cretan ref
ugees at the Piraeus, where 8,000 of them
are quartered, desciibe their state as
being txtremely pitiable. They are ut
terly dcstitue and most of them are
emaciated from hunger and illness. Most
of them are womtn and children, and
many of them were brought in open
decked sloops, exposed to the weather
In an absolutely nude s ate. Many of
the women were driven raving mad
through their sufferings and from fright,
and several children were born at sea
and on the landing stages where the
miserable creatures disembarked.
TROOPS WILL REMAIN IN CRETE.
Vienna, March 11—Tho Noue Frele
Presse publish, s a report of an Interview
had by its correspondent in Athens with
King George, of Greece. The king is
quo.ed as saying: "Greece has done in
Crete as Austria did in the cas: in Bos
nia, when the Bosnian Christians took
refuge in Austria."
The king also said that the Greek
troops would remain in Crete and pro
tect Greeks and Turks alike.
LAID UPON THE TABLE.
■London, March 11.—In the house o£
commons this evening Sir William Har
court asked the government if it was
true that Greece was prepared to recog
nize the autonomy of Crete under the
suzerainty of the sultan.
George N. Curzon, parliamentary sec
retary of the foreign office, replying for
the government, sold that Greece had
made a communication to the govern
ment on the subject of Crete and that
this communication would be laid upon
’ the table tomorrow.
He added that Sir William's question
did not express accurately the attitude
of Greece.
NO HITCH AMONG THE POWERS.
London. March 11.—In answer to in
quiries at the foreign office, the authori
ties state that here is no hitch among the
powers in regard to their action in ac
cordance with the terms of their ultimat
um to Greece, bu. the delay is due to the
fact! that the compromise offered by
Greece in reply to the note of the powers
requires an exchange of views.
ACTIVE NEGOTIATIONS.
Paris, March 11.—M. Hanotaux ex
plained to the chamber of deputies today
that the reply made by Greece to the
demands of the powers had caused the
latter to enter Into active negotiations
concerning the situation.
southerFbusiness.
Manufacturers' Record’s Weekly Re
view Shows a Marked Improve
ment In Business Affairs.
Baltimore, Md., March 11.—The Manu
facturers’ Record > weekly review of
Southern business interests show that
industrial and financial matters are re
ceiving Increased attention and that the
indications throughout the south gen
erally point to a marked improvement in
business affairs.
During the week the Georgia Railroad
and Banking company has sold $1,000,000
5 per cent bonds to retire six per cent
bonds; the Seaboard Air Line has sold
$1,000,000 B per cent bonds to retire 8
per cent bonds; the details have been
completed of the building by leading cot
ton manufacturers of New Englond of a
$600,000 cotton mill in Alabama; con
tracts have been let for the construction
of the buildings for the steel plant in
Birmingham, thus definitely assuring
the establishment of large steel works
in that city; a company has been organ
ized to develop a 3,000 horse water pow
er near Gainesville, Ga., for electrical
transmission, to Include In its opera
tions a 1,000 spindle cotton mill and street
railway; an Augusta cotton mill will
build a 20,000 spindle mill in addition to
its present plant; a $550,000 cotton mill
has been organized at Dcuglasvillc, Ga.;
a Milwaukee manufacturing company
will remove to Gadsden and spend $60,
000 in buildings and machinery; a $20,
000 railroad machinery shop will be built
at Blue Ridge, Ga.; a $20,000 variety
works at Cordele; water and electric
light works at Fitzgerald; in Louisiana
a $100,000 company has been organized
to build a sugar mill and contracts have
been let for another sugar pilll; one fur
nace at Anniston, Ala., has gone into
blast during the week; a company to
manufacture cfoss arms and Insulator
pins for electric wires has purchased
1,000 acres of timber land In North Caro
lina and will establish a plant.
These are but a few Illustrations to
Indicate the diversity and extent of
the Industrial enterprises reported dur
ing the past week. In all parts of the
south and in all lands of Industry as well
as railroad Industry, the Indications for
Increased business seem to be more
promising than for many months.
There Is no great rush, but a steady,
gradual movement that Indicates a solid
and substantial growth with increasing
activity In the near future.
KATE WAR CASE.
Second Day Before the United States,
Court—Legal Sparring. /
Norfolk, Va„ March 11.—The secontffi
day's hearing of the celebrated rate w/£
case now before the United States c 1/ c
here was a legal sparring match. ijSj
Alexander King, of Atlanta, counsey §
the Seaboard Air Line, and Mr. ij .
Wilmer, of the Baltimore Trust and j .gr
antee company, argued a demur/ •'» to
the bill before Judge Hughes. TtteCiSere
the onty attorneys who spoke today al
though quite an array of counsel was
present to represent the different com
panies and a number of trust companies’
lawyers were also In attendance. The
principal points argued wore the correc
tions of the bill in all its counts and ju
risdiction of the court. The most im
portant feature of the hearing was the
point raised by the S. aboard counsel as
to th*- authority of the court to Interfere
in railroad rate wars. This point was
warmly argued and Its settlement will
be one of tile most important re-ults of
the celebrated litigation.
The case was adjourned until tomor
row.
CIVIL DAMAGE SUITS
Begun Against the Southern Railway for
$225,000.
Chattanooga, Tenn., March 11.—Pro
1 ceedings were begun today In the circuit
court of the county against the Southern
Railway in suits for civil damages ag
gregating $225,000. Writs were issued for
the defendants who are sued on nine sep
arate bills in amounts of $25,000 each. The
plaintiffs are the several administrators
of the wife and eight children of M. H.
Woodward, a farmer residing at Jersey,
Tenn., whose entire family was recently
killed at -a railroad crossing near this
city by a Southern train. Hon. Hoke
Smith of Atlanta, ex-secretary of the
Interior, will appear as chief counsel for
the plaintiffs.
NEW STEAMBOAT LINE.
Mobile, Ala., March 11.—Messrs. Hagan
and Hoffman, traffc managers respective
ly of the Mexican Central railroad and
the Ward Steamship line, have been In
the city for two days investigating the
feasibility of establishing a steamship
line between this city and TVamplco. They
concluded their labors today and an
nounced that the new line to be known as
the Mexican Gulf Steamship line, will be
inaugurated out of this port May 1, be
ginning with a weekly steamship which
’will touch at New Orleans.
IMPORTANT DECISION.
Rendered Affecting the Port Royal and
Augusta Division of the Charles
ton and Western.
Augusta. Oa., March 11.—An Important
decision affecting the Port Royal and
Augusta division of the Charleston and
Western Carolina railroad system was
rendered today by Judge Calloway, of the
superior court, Augusta circuit.
After the sale of the property under
receivership by which 'Thomas and Ry
an came into possession of the property,
Judge Simonton, of the United States
court and Judge Aldrich, of the South
Carolina court dismissed the receiver.
The superior court of the Augusta cir
cuit being in recess, Judge Calloway re
fused to put the Charleston and Western
Carolina system in possession of that
portion of the road, which was in the
state of Georgia, except with the con
sent of the intervcnors In Richmond
superior court. The Augusta and Sum
merville Railroad company, a local 'ft ns
fer corporation, filed an intervention by
leave of the court, claiming a balance
due of $9,000 for transportation services.
The decision today finds In favor of the
Augusta and Summerville railroad and
retains the receiver In possession of the
property until such sum is settled, fail
ing which he is ordered to sell the prop
erty to pay the claim.
The case will probably go to a higher
court.
BRYAN IN NASHVILLE.
Lectures for the Benefit of the Woman's
Board of the Tennessee Centennial
Exposition.
Nashville, Tenn., 'March 11.—The sec
ond day of the visit of the Hon. W. J.
Bryan to Nashville ended as a memora
ble one for her people, and particularly
for the woman's board of the Tennessee
Centennial exposition, for whose benefit
are the proceeds of his lectures. Follow
ing his lecture on the financial issue last
night, Mr. Bryan addressed the legisla
ture today upon the subject of corpora
tions and their relations to the govern
ment. Apropos <5f the railroad commis
sion bill now before the general assem
bly his remarks were in the nature of
wholesome advice to that body. After
being the recipient of much social atten
tion, Mr. Bryan left for Lincoln at 7:40
tonight.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 11.—Continued fine
weather and the usual large attendance
marked today's racing. The track was
pretty fast and the sport lively, two fa
vorites winning, and- Grayling, another
one, making a dead-heat with Prince of
India, a 12 to 1 shot.
FI a? t Race—Six furlongs. Ella Pen
zance, 103 (Oaywood), 6 to 5, won; R. Q.
Ban second, Halloween third. Time,
1:17.
Second Race—Six furlongs. Prince of
India, 107 (T. Burns), 12 to 1, and Gray
ling, 107 (J. Garner), 3 to 5, ran a dead
heat; Alkyris third. Time, 1:17.
Third Race—'Mile and one-sixteenth.
Tenochtltlan, 108 (Knapp), 3 to 1, won;
Chicot second, Sir John third. Time,
1:52%.
Fourtih Race—(Mile ami one-eighth.
OK bo, 96 (Powers), 6 to 1, won; Booze
second, Senator Penrose third. Time,
1:58.
Fifth -Rac—Six furlongs. Jake Zim
merman, 108 (R. Williams). 4 to 5, won;
Nannie Lord second. Flora Ballard third.
Time, 1:17%.
Sixth Race—Seven furlongs. Robert
Bonner, 94 (Clay). 5 to 2, won; Annie Teu
ton second, Earth third. Time, 1:30<4.
LOUISVILLE CLUB LOSING MONET.
Louisville, Ky., (March 11.—The direct
ors of the Louisville base ball club an
nounced tonight that unless th"y came
out even on this year’s season they would
dispose of the National league franchise.
They clatan to have been losing money
for five years.
TORCH APPLIED IN CUBA
Patriots Enter Havana and Burn
jw Fifteen Houses,
mk? _
nIe to resign his post
*> _
f
As Soon as He Settles the Pending Matters on
Hand and Gets Them in Proper
’o' Shape.
Havana, March 11.—(Via Key West,
Fla., March 11.)—Monday night a band
of well-known Cuban patriots entered
the strongly fortified cabin of Bejucal,
in Havana province, sacking all the N
stores in the place and burning fifteen
houses. Details are lacking. It is also
reported that another party of rebels,
commanded by Castillo, captured the
town of Qu'ivecan and burned several
bouses of the place. The brutal murder
of Dr. Ruiz, which raised such a cry of
indignation In the United States. Is still
occupying the attention of Consul Lee.
Persons In close contact with the consul
say that he is greatly worried over the
affair. As already reported, Spain hay
ordered a fresh and thorough investiga
tion of the facts which Jed to Ruiz s
death. But Consul Lee Is quoted as say
ing that he does not clearly see how the
investigation can be properly carried out.
He naturally cannot undersiand how an
impartial trial can he held, since no wit
ness will testify against MaJ. Fondevleja
or the warden of the Jail. They reason
ably fear for their livts, which certainly
would be endangered If they should hon
estly tel! the truth of what has occurred.
Personal friends of Gen. Ler affirm
that as soon as he Bhall have settled all
the pending matters he has on hand and
got 'them In proper shape he will resign
his post and retire to the United States.
He apparently feels tired of the Span
ish ''business" and disgusted at seeing
that all his efforts in behalf of the rlgh.s
of the American citizens from the island
have been In vain bo far. A letter re
ceived from Santiago de Cuba dated the
4th inst., Tefers to an incident which
shows the u'tter lack of consideration
these Spanish authorities have with the
representatives of foreign powers. Bv
order of th> chief of police, the house of
Mr. Robert Mason, English pro consul
and acting Chinese consul, was thorough
ly searched, but nothing found of a com
promising nature. Mr. Mason was not
present during the search, and as soon
as he heard of the outrage he at once
reported the fact to the British consul
general. who at once called on the civil
government and ample apologies were
given on the spot.
THE SPANISH JUDGE •
Ratifies the Imprisonment of Charles
Scott—Larrieu Will Be Released,
Havana, March 11.—The judge of the
court at Gunagoboa has ratified the ac
tion of the Spanish authorities In. Im
prisoning Charles Scott, the American
citizen who was arrested February !) last
on the charge of having .Cuban postage
stamps in Ills possession. This means
that the case will continue under the or
dinary procedure until It is finally dis
posed of.
The Mantanzas district court has sus
pended proceedings again,-t Francisco
Larrieu. an American citizen, who was
arrested at Cardenas on May 15 last, and
will soon be released.
KEEPING AN EYE ON HER.
Fernandina, Fla., March 11—The
steamship Bermuda. Captain Murphy,
arrived in Fernandina last night from
Bermuda, Captain Murphy said he
came litre for orders. The Bermuda, on
her arrival, was searched by a revenue
officer of the revenue cutter Colfax, but
nothing of a filibustering nature was
found. The Colfax lias b, in in Fernan
dina for a fortnight awaiting the Ber
muda’s arirval, and will probably stay
until the Bermuda leaves. Captain
Murphy said he had been lading to for
five days off Fernandina. repairing his
engines, which were a little out of order.
There is nothing in port which would In
dicate a filibustering trip. The Spanish
consul was on hand to meet the Ber
muda. and had his force of men at
work keeping an eye on her. The Ber
muda was searched by the British vice
consul, who took the vessel's papers
away from her and sent them to Wash
ington. The Bermuda was under Brit
ish registry.
It was suspected that her mission in
Florida waters was to go filibustering.
Both the consul and the captain of the
vessel refuse to say why the papers
wore seized. It is said the consul had
orders from the British embassy at
Washington to act as he did.
IRON AND STEEL OUTLOOK.
The Market Shows a Quieter Tone—Bes
semer Bill.-fa Stronger—Bridge Ma
terial In Demand and Active.
Pittsburg, Pa., March 11.—The Ameri
can Manufacturer In its edition tomorrow
will say concerning the Iron and steel
outlook: The Iron and steel market this
weeks shows a somewhat quieter tone.
There are few signs of the recent flurry
but each week bring? additional evidence
that the improvement is becoming more
general. Bessemer billets sold better
during the past week than they have for
several weeks. In the eastern market
there has been no big change in trade,
but the feeling is still very hopeful. Bes
semer billets are stronger. There are
good prospects for structural material,
but the bar iron situation is bad. Phila
delphia reports the best tin plate trade
noted for months. At Chicago there are
many inquiries for bridge inaerlal and
active demand for sheets and a general
feeling that better times are close at
hand. Cincinnati reports pig Iron sellers
as holding more firmly. From Cleveland
comes the statement that the iron ore
producers may yet reach some kind of
agreement. An improved business In
structural material Is reported.
"BUCKEYE ^REGULATORS’’
After Georg* Jackton, Who Drove Pearl
Bryan to Her Death.
Chicago. March 11.—A special to tha
Dispatch from Springfield, O., says:
"Gedrge Jackson, colored cabman, who
claims to have driven Pearl Bryan to her
death, and whose story .was used «»
strong evidence against Jackson and
Walling, ha3 received a letter signed
'Buckeye Regulators,' which tells Jack
son his coffin is ready, and that unless ha
tells the truth before Jackson and Wall
ing ere hanged the regulators will visit
him. Jackson Is in jail here awaiting
trial for perjury for which he was In- „
elided by the grand Jury. _
— -/
BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, MARCH 13, 1897. NUMBER 47
PLUCKY GREEK HEDGED IN
By the Great European
Powers.
FRANCE ALONE RELUCTANT
A Fresh Note Gives Notice of Coercive Measure
If Greece Does Not Comply
at Once.
London, March 12.—It Is asserted here
on excellent authority that the powers
are exchanging views In regard to pre
senting a fresh note to Greece giving no
tice of their Intention to resort to coer
cive measures to enforce their demands
If Greece docs not comply at once, and
also to maintain a blockade of Greek
ports.
France, it Is understood. Is the only
power showing any reluctance to take
part In a blockade and if she refuses to
participate the blockade will be under
taken without her.
MAINTAIN PEACE BY CONCERT.
Paris, March 12.—In the senate today
M. C. Hauveau aEked the government to
explain the policy of France In regard
to Greece and Crete.
M. Hanotaux, minister of foreign af
fairs. said in reply that he would explain
the government's policy at the beginning
of the week.
In the meantime he would promise that
the foreign police of France, which could
be expressed In one word would be to
maintain peace by means of a concert
of the European powers.
EUROPE TO PRESERVE ORDER.
Vienna, March 12.—The admirals com
manding the European squadrons in Cre
tan waters have suggested to their re
spective governments the advisability of
each power contributing 1.000 soldiers to
be employed in occupying the towns in
the northern part of Crete for the pur
pose of preserving order.
POSSIBLE OUTBURST IN ASIA.
Constantinople. March 12.—The general
belief here Is, that the negotiations be
tween the powers over the reply of Greece
to their demands will be protected.
Meanwhile, a renewal of the outbreak In
Asia Minor Is Imminent, and Sir Philip
Currie, the British ambassador, has
called the porte’s attention to the state
of affairs existing there, with a view of
averting the atrocities which are threat
ened. The Christians in Anatolia are in
a deplorable condition, and consequently
subject to outrage. It Is feared that a
massacre will occur at Payas, where the
situation is extremely critical.
COMPEL GREECE TO OBEY.
Vienna, March 12.—The Freudenblatt,
a semi-official organ, says that the view
taken by the powers to the reply of
Greece to their Identical note Is that It
can only be answered by the employment
of force to compel Greece to obey the
will of Europe.
DESTRUCTIVE FIRE.
Quitman, Ga.. Suffers Heavy Loss From
the Ravages of the Flames—
Loss and Insurance.
* _____
Savannah, Ga., March 12.—A special
to the Morning News from Quitman, Ga.,
says:
The most destructive fire ever seen In
Quitman occurred this afternoon. The
fire alarm was sounded about 3 o'clock
The fire started in the large wooden
building occupied by the Blount Turpen
tine Tool company, and the Tower Ma
chine and Handle factory and Barger's
blacksmith and carriage factory. The
building was a plunder shop and It re
.quired only a few minutes for the flames
to consume It. A stiff wind was blow
ling and for a time It looked as If the
whole business portion of the town would
be gone. The fire started from an Im
provised dry kiln owned by S. H. Bad
ger. He undertook to dry some lumber
in the building. Carried by the wind the
flames leaped from building to building
with unconquerable fury and spread over
a wide area before they finally burned
themselves out Following 16 a state
ment of the losses and fnsurance:
Joseph Mabbetts, $2,000; Insurance $600
on stock.
J. Tyler, $2,000; no Insurance.
K. H. Williams. $1,600; Insurance $1,000.
Walker Bros. & Co., on building, $4,000;
Insurance on stock $5,000.
G. W. Averett, stock, $500; building
$2,000; insurance $3,000 on property.
Wade & Powers, $76; no Insurance.
C. L. Lilly, $1,000; Insurance on stock
$1,500.
Sweat & Wll30n. $300; no Insurance.
Barrel & Co., $2,000; Insurance $800.
Miss Waters, $1,200, no insurance.
J. O. Morton,. $2,000; insurance $800.
Creech & Tharln, on building $2,000; In
surance on stock $5,000.
Misses Monger, $1,000; no insurance.
W. M. Hunter, on building $2,000; In
surance on stock $3,000.
J. W. Hopson, building, $150; Insurance'
on stock, $3,000.
Groover & Co., $2,000; no Insurance.
L. S. Price, $1,500; Insurance $1,000.
Several other losses of smaller amounts
partially covered by Insurance.
mobile!
Dr. R. B. Allman Shot Bight Times and
Killed by Himes Hood, at State
Line, Miss.
Mobile, Ala., March 12.—Dr. R. B. All
man wus shot eight times and killed yes
terday afternoon at State Line, Miss., by
Himes Hood, son of J. R. Hood, formerly
of this city. The doctor was drinking
in his room, and Hood and another young
man were trying to get him ito give up
a jug of whisky. The doctor finally ac
cused Hood of talking about him and at
tacked Hood with a dirk, when Hood
shot him eight times through the head
at point blank range, tor. Allman went
to State Line about two weeks ago, and
claimed to be from Montgomery.
THE M'KINLEY SCHEDULE
On Wools and Woolens Was Substan
tially Adopted.
Washington, March 12.—The McKinley
schedule on wools and woolens wus sub
stantially adopted yesterday by the re
publican majority of the ways and means
committee. Some important changes
were made in classification, with a view
to meeting the abjection of the wool
i '
#
growers as to the use of cheap wools.
Imported at carpet rates under the Mc
Kinley law, for clothing purpo3'8. Other
than these, little change was mads The
paragraph of the McKinley law Impos
ing double duties on washed wool and
three time3 the unwashed duty on scoured
wool; Imposing 30 per cent. per 100 on
oils and waste, and the rates for manu
facture of wool upon wool advanced be
yond the condition of scouring, were all
readopted. The schedule of yarns, cloths
and other manufae.ures was not com
pleted. but It will follow strictly the Mc
Kinley schedule. No serious changes in
the relations of these duties can be made
without disturbing the symmetry of :he
woolen schedule now that the McKinley
duties on all classes of raw wool have
been adopted without change.
CHICAGO HOTEL
Damaged By Fire—Three Lives Lost
and Two Injured.
Buffalo, N. Y.. March 12.—The Chicago
Hotel, corner Washington and Exchange
streets, was damaged by fire at 7:30 p.
m. Three persons lost their lives and
two were injured.
Dead: Edward O'Donnell, Paddy Bren
nan, William Hanahan, all of this city.
Injured: William Wilson and wife.
O’Donnell and Hanahan were suffocat
ed in their bede. Brennan Jumped from
a window and received injuries from
which he afterwards died
GEORGIA TROUBLES.
Two People Meet Their Death On the
Railroad—New Trial Refused Mrs.
Nobles and Granted Ryder.
Atlanta. Ga.. March 12.—Sam Ashby,
b bu cher on Marietta street, was killed
by a Southern railway switch engine at
North avenue crossing today. He was
standing on one track watching a train
pass, and did not Bee the engine which
ran him down.
OLD NEGRO KILLED.
Atlanta, Ga„ March 12.—Mary Davis,
an old negro woman, was killed by the
outgoing Macon train on the Southern
railway this afternoon. She was crossing
the track near Clark university.
NEW TRIAL REFUSED.
Atlanta, Ga., March 12!—'The supreme
court today refused a new trial for Mrs.
Nobles, convicted of murdering her hus
band. The execution of Gus Fambles, a
negro accomplice, has been held up by
Gov. Atkinson, pending a decision on
Mrs. Nobles' appeal.
MATERIAL WETNESS ABSENT.
Atlanta, Ga_, Match 12.—The supreme
court granted a new trial to Dr. IV. L.
Ryder, convicted of murdering Miss
Emma Owens In Talbot county. In ren
derlna the decision, the supreme court
says that the lower court erred in refus
ing a continuance of the case, when It
waa shown that material witnesses for
the defense could not be present. A
change of venue is refused.
SUN’S COTTON.
New York, March 12.—Spot cotton here
waa unchanged with sales of 105 bales for
spinning. Middling uplands 7% against
711-16 last year; New Orleans and Gulf
7% against 7 15-16 last year. The trad
ing was quiet and tn the main
of a local professional character. Prices
declined early In the day on bearish Liv
erpool advices and selling for local and
Liverpool account. Liverpool cables re
ported the market there lower for fu
tures and spots with a small demand for
spot cotton. There was not much pres
sure to sell, however, and after fluctuat
ing within narrow limits prices slowly
rallied, some months recovering the early
loss and advancing slightly. The rally
was due principally to reports of high
water in the Mississippi at Vicksburg and
Memphis. Then, too, the crop movement
of the week was smaller than had been
expected early in the week.
ANOTHER GEORGIA COLONY.
Four Thousand Acres of Land Bought
Near Augusta.
Augusta, Ga., March 12.—Deals were
closed today on the purchase of 4,000
acres of the 'best farm land In middle
Georgia, located about ten miles from
Augusta, for the organization of a col
ony. The Georgia Railroad, Land and
Colonization company is at the head of
the movement.
A town site will be surveyed and the
property divided into small farms, prin
cipally for the culture of fruit.
"The turf,
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 12.—Hot weather,
the thermometer at 82 degrees, gave the
race course a summary appearance to
day. The large crowd present spent a
very pleasant day of it, although only
two favorites won. Secretary W. W.
Lyle, of the New Windsor Jockey club,
whose spring meeting opens April 20,
got In here from Detroit this morning.
Windsor will get a good many horses
. from here.
First Race—Six furlongs. Nicholas,
107 (Combs), even, won; Helen Wren
Becond, Senator Morrell third. Time, 1:16.
Second Race—Half mile. Lupla, 100
(Clay), 4 to 1, won; Lillian Russell sec
ond, John Connors third. Time, 0:89.
Third Race—Handicap, seven furlongs.
The Plutocrat, 107 (R. Williams), 2 to 1,
won; Princess Bonnie Becond, Ciymena
third. Time, 1:30.
Fourth Race—One mile, handicap.
Judge Steadman, 100 (Beauchamp), 12 to
1, won; Necedah second, Domingo third.
Time, 1:42%.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs. Rush Fields,
97 (Gtrtreles). 25 to 1, won; Lord Fairfax
Becond, Cadillac third. Time, 1:15%.
Sixth Race—Selling, one mile. Paros,
104 (Clay), 9 to 2, won; Samson second,
Constant third. Time, 1:43%.
HON. BENTON F. M’MILLAN
Appointed Chairman National Associa
tion Democratic Clubs.
Washington, March 12.—Hon. Benton
F. \foMillin, of Tennessee, has been ap
pointed chairman of the executive com
mittee of the National Association of
Dempcratlo Clubs, of which Hon. Chaun
cey Black, of Pennsylvania, is president.
The other members of the committee
will be announced in a few days, and it
is said only those who were loyal to the
Chicago platform will be appointed.
ESCAPED COVICT CAPTURED.
Chicago, 111, March 12.—George, alias
Dutch Bradley, who escaped from, the
penitentiary at Nashville, Tenn., six
weeks ago, where he was serving sen
tence for murdering a man named
Rogers, waB arrested here this morn
ing. - • j A i V. :
. —... ■■ ■ ■-—- %4 ■'
$360,000 BLAZE.
Chicago, March 12.—Fire broke out at
7 o'clock this evening on the first floor
of the wholesale house of John Tolman
& Co., at Michigan avenue and Lake
street, and before it was extinguished re
sulted in damages aggregating $360,000.
It is not known
WIDESPREADjCONFIDENCE
Is Bradstreet’s Report for the
Week
AND BUSINESS EXPANSION
Is the Indication for the Near Future—Cotton
Goods in Excess of Demand
Wool Active.
New York, March 12.—BradB’.reet’s to
morrow will say: Continued activity in
various Industrial lines, based on an ex
panding consumptive demand, fairly
steady prices for staples, further Im
provement In railway earnings and wide
spread confidence that the volume of
business will expand materially In the
near future, const!.ute trade features of
the week.
Jobbers at Chicago and St. Louis do
not find the activity expected at this
time/,but report a fairly steady request
by mail order and' visiting buyers. In
dustrial revival liaj been offset in in
stances by the closing of factories and
mills and others by operations depend
ent upon paying reduced wages.
Offerings of cotton goods have been in
excess of demand, notwithstanding the
curtailment of output. Wool continues
active and film in price, but manufac
turers are buying sparingly in addition
to requirements to meet present con
tracts. The central west and northwest
report the distribution of general mer
chandise interfered with by floods and
washouts.
Bank clearings, as a trade barometer,
point to a temporary check to the ten
dency to increase noted tarlier in the i
year, the week’s total--, $926,000,000, being
8 per cent, less than last week, and 2 per
cent, less than In the second Week of
March 1S96.
February gross railway earnings tend
to improve, although comparisons with
that month in 1893 t ill favor last year.
Total earnings of 116 railroad- for Feb
ruary this year aggregate $34,165,901. a
decrease of 7-10 of 1 per cent, for the to
tal of February. 1896. This is a better
showing than In January or in any
month since September. The coalers,
track lines and the southwestern roads
all show gains in February over a year
ago, whereas In January, not one group
of American roads showed an Increase.
Large gains by Mexican roads continue,
a feature of February earnings.
Business failures continue to decrease,
the total for the week being 227, against
262 last week, and 282 In the week a year
ago.
RIDING THE WAVE'S.
Dun & Co. Take a Worded Route On the
Situation of Trade.
New York, March 12.—R. G. Dun &
Co. will say tomorrow In their weekly
review of trade: It la a curious Illustra
tion of human nature, this continued dis
couragement, even while the increase of
productive industries and of legitimate
business steadily grows. No lasting or
genuine improvement could come' other
wise than slowly, and step by step, after
such a depression as the last four years
have witnessed, and the most hopeful
feature of the situation is that the gain
is so nearly devoid of elements which in
volve unsoundness and probable reac
tion. The money markets continue espe
cially favorable to Industrial recovery,
and there is no such speculative epidemic
as to lock up an excessive share of avail
able capital.
Cotton Is not active, though a six
teenth higher, for the curtailment of con
sumption by many mills doe^not yet help
prices in the least, nor the suspersion of
print cloths reports, and dealers gener
ally hold back orders for other goods so
that thetone Is weak. The speculation
In wool continues, and sales for the two
weeks have been 17,903,900 pounds, where
as, the largest previous sales at the
same period were 12,017,676 pounds in
1892. While there is much trade between
dealers, manufacturers show by purchas
ing far beyond tlie present wants :he be
lief that larger business Is coming.
Iron furnaces March 1 were producing
169,986 tons weekly, 7,027 tons, or 4 per
cent, more than February 1, and although
visible stocks have Increased 30 074 tons
in four weeks, s ill more furnaces have
started this month. The demand for fin
ished product still lags behind the sup
ply of pig iron except in the great steel
works, whose stocks are not reported, but
their orders without doubt cover produc
tion for Beveral months. Bessemer pig
Is a shade lower, but no other change In
quotations appears, and there Is a grad
ual Increase in the demand for plates,
sheets and all the wire family of prod
ucts. With the spring weather and out
door work much more, business has been
extended. The starting of the Maryland
Rail works under contract with the Car
negie company, in order to make ship
ments by water more cheaply, Is sig
nificant.
The volume of business shown by clear
ings is but 1.8 per cent, smaller than last
year. Failures for the past week have
been 256 in the United States, against
300 last year, and 61 In Canada, against
60 last year.
MAYHEW EXECUTED.
Hie Last Cry Was, "I Am Not Guilty;
I Am An Innocent Man”—Pitiful.
Sing Sing, N. Y., March 12.—Arthur
May hew, a negro, wag successfully elec
trocuted In the prison at 11:17 this morn
ing for the murder of Stephens Powell,
a prominent and wealthy citizen of
Hempstead, L. I. Mayhew was terribly
frightened, and appealed to the keepers,
with whom he struggled, not to turn on
the current until he cried he was ready.
All during the operation of fastening him
down Mayhew cried out: “I am not guil
ty; I’m dying an Innocent man. John
Waynes and Frank Albertson are
guilty.” These cries he interspersed with
’’Jesus, have mercy on me; oh, Lord
God, save me.” It was a pitiful scene.
Frank Albertson, who was accused by
Mayhew In his dying breath of being im
plicated with Waynes In the murder of
Powell, has never before been mentioned
In connection with the crime. There is
not such a man knotyp even by anybody
Interested In the oase. Testimony dur
ing the trial showed that only two men
were concerned In the crime. Several
lawyers here today who are taking into
consideration the .man’s protestation of
Innocence and Wayne’s confession that
Mayhew was oo^ JmjpllpaJed In Powell’s
murder,'express fedr that perhaps May
how mey have been mistaken for Albert
3f$li and that the unfortunate n?gi<5 wag
Innocent of th| crime for, which he died.
FATAL SHOOTING.
.■Montgomery, Ala., Sfttrch 12.—A dif
ficulty occurred at the Western railroad
shops In Montgomery today In which
Thomas iMcQween fatally shot Samuel
Lewis. No pa rtleulaiw could be learned.
They were both employes ot the road.
—:-TiX
SILEH'S INSTRUCTIONS
Will Be Honestly Obeyed to the
Letter.
PASS AROUND THE BOTTLE
Says Brady and Let the Conference Stand
Adjourned—The Knotty Problems
Are About All Solved.
Carson, March 12.—Several knotty prob
lems In connection with the big tight
were discussed today and solved, princi
pal umong them being the agreement be
tween the fighters as to the Queen-sherry
rules and Dan Stuart’s compromise with
the Klnetoscope company. The princi
pals in the main event of the carnival
cased off in their work, and a large dele
gation of sporting men from the east ar
rived.
Martin Julian, representing Fitzsim
mons, and W. A. Brady, acting for Cor
bett, met George Slier and Dan Stuart
in the latteir’s office this afternoon and
took up the question of rules. The first
eleven rules of Queensberry were passed
upon without a hitch. Rule 12, touching
upon the London prize ring regulations
brought Julian to white heat, and he
protes.ed strongly, but ineffectually
against Siler's Judgment, which allowed
hitting In clinches with a free hand and
also on breaks.
"What one who has followed Fitzsim
mons will admit that this style of light
ing suits him?” assorted the stout man
ager. “Bob is essentially a puncher, and
not a wrestler. At long range he is in
vincible, but I will not allow him -to go
Into any ‘mixed ale’ scraps if I can help
it. I thought this fight was to be the
most scientific ever fought. Now, why
does Corbett want to mix matters up
so?”
Brady came to the scratch at the out
set and informed ail present that Cor
bett would agree to anything reason
able. Siler, he said, was not Corbett’s
preference for a referee, but Jim had
faith In the gentleman’s discretion and
honesty and would not squabble over any
ruling which was not downright and fair.
When Julian realized that he was alone
in the controversy he appealed to Dan
Stuart for judgment, agreeing to abide
by what the big Texan thought was
right Stuart invited Siler into a private
room where they conversed for a few
nrXnutes.
"Gentlemen,” announced the promoter,
"Hr. Julian has given me his word that
he will accept my decision on this mat
ter. I hope he knows me well enough
to believe that I would not wrong Fitz
simmons In any manner. I am of the
opinion that Mr. Stler’e interpretation of
the rules Is absolutely Impartial and
gives neither of the fighters the slightest
advantage.
"Let It be understood, then, that Corbett
and Fitzsimmons may hit with a free
hand during clinches and that they may
l'Iso bang away at each other during
pqxarating—In short, Mr. SUer'a-faatrtie
'ejon1* are to be followed to the letter. I
crust this will satisfy you all.”
“Very well, then,” Julian rejoined.
"Let It go at that; I won’t kick."
Brady suggested a small bottle and the
conference adjourned.
Mr. Rector, who represents the Edison
Kinteoscope company, got Stuart’s ear
today and concluded his business ar
rangements. The most delicate and Im
proved apparatus for reproducing mo
tion on paper will be set up In a box
seventeen feet distant from the ring
side. It will project no higher than the
sides for several boxes on either side and
will not obstruct any views from the
rear. Stuart will realize a cash con
sideration from the company and a per
,-centage of receipts from such exhibi
tions. Neither Corbett nor Fitzsim
mons will figure in the deal at all.
Three hours of fast work on the road
this morning left Corbett with plenty of
steam for his evening's work. The punch
ing bag was not touched, but Jim put in
a few extra licks with the gloves, after
taking three straight games of hand
ball fram A1 Hampton. He was closely
watched by a number of eastern people
who arrived today'.
They pronounced him better able to put
up a light than ever. Many of them
were Fitzsimmons’ partisans, but they
wore long faces after seeing Jim drive
Woods around the court and knock him
groggy while apparently holding himself
back. He was a trifle nervous though
and frequently warned his trainers to
be careful about running In on him. Ed
Green rus.hed him Into a corner now and
then during his first round and In fight
ing himself, out Jim let go a few stiff
ones. He warned Ed Green not to
force matters too much, and after the big
hammer thrower had taken an astronom
ical' observation or two he- stood away at
a respectful distance.
The roads about Cooks ranch nave dried
out beautifully, and Fitzsimmons tried
his bicycle this morning. He wheeled
fourteen miles before 11 o’clock without
e mishap, but his arms appeared to be
stiff when he put the gloves on with
Hickey. Dan was at his best, and Bob
did not show up any too well in the
bout. Roe'ber limbered the Australian up
a hit, and Stenzler came in for some
fancy short-arm punch1??. Clinch after
clinch followed in the last set-to, and
each time Bob showed his short-range
punching abilities in a wonderful man
ner. If, as Julian asserts, he is a long
range puncher, no one has been able to
discover the fact. His method of getting
in on a break is totally different from
Corbett. Instead of swinging on his op
ponent’s jaw with a downward and half
circular motion like Jim, he slips up un
der the guard with a swift and strong
upper cut of the chin.
An obliging friend of Dan Stuart *in
Sandiago has warned the director-gen
eral that his box office Is to be looted1 on
• the day of the fight. According to the
Southern Californian, an organized band
of robbers will station themselves around
the office, and when they think they have
money In sight guns will be whipped
out and all hands stood up. Dan is not
losing any sleep over the plot.
George Siler and Stuart were formally
notified this evening that Jimmy Colville,
of Boston, would serve as Corbett’s keep
er, and that Lou Houseman, of .Chicago,
would hold the watch for Fitzsimmons.
Martin Flaherty, with a lean face as
brown as a berry, drove in from his quar
ters at Genoa today and yaid a visit to
Corbett. Martin is down to 124 and has
practically finished his training. He
reports that ’’Mysterious" Billy Smith
tips the scales at 147 now and is in ele
gant condition.
A. R. Elliot, of Kansas City, the
champion wing shot, dropped in this even
ing with a email arsenal in his (Jrip. He
is enthusiastic over the trap shooting
tournament. Stuart today deposited the
$1,000 purse in the Bullion bapk. The
shoot will com'enee at 10 a. m. Tuesday,
March 16, and entries will close at noon.
One thousand1 birds have been ordered
by express from San Francisco and
1 there will be some sweepstakes shot oft
Monday afternoon in the race track ad
joining the big arena.
The entries so far number seventeen
of the first class, and nil will certainly
participate.
RECORD BREAKER.
A Train On the Plant System Runs 180
Miles In Ninety Minutes.
Savannah, Ga., March 12.—The Plant
system broke the 100-mile fast record in
the south today with a special train,
which made the run between Savannah
and Charleston, 108 miles, in ninety min
utes. The average speed was seventy
two miles an hour. The special was run
for Rlttenhouse Moore, a large contract
or, in order to reach Charles.on in time
to file a bid for government work.
WASHINGTON HESING.
Chicago’s Postmaster Nominated foT
■Mayor On Reform Platform.
Chicago, March 12.—Washington Hes
ing, postmaster of Chicago, was nominat
ed tonight by acclamation at Central
Music hall for the office of mayor on n
municipal reform platform and at the
h ad of a non-partisan ticket, which was
named "Business Administration of Mu
nicipal Affairs.”
This makes the fourth mayoralty ticket
in the field, and Alderman John Harlan,
another non-partisan reform candidate,
will probably be nominated to make the
fifth aspirant for mayoralty honors.
INCREASE OF DUTIES
Causes a Rush of Merchants to the Cus
tom House to Withdraw Goods—
Banks Loan $1,000,000.
New York, March 12.—The rush of mer
chants to the custom house in this city
to withdraw goods in bond because of the
expected increase of the duties under a
new tariff was continued today. It was
estimated that today’s withdrawals
would reach half a million dollars. Some
of the merchants are fearful that a tariff/
may be passed with a retroactive clause
or one making its provisions date from
its introduction instead of some time
after its passage. The following shows
the daily payments on withdrawals at
this pdrt since the beginning of the
month and exhibits the big Insurance in
the last three1 days: March 1, $79,907; 2d,
$98,213; 3d, $76,233; 4th, $81,077; 5th, $78,158;
6th. $47,667; 8th, $80,819; 9th, $103,120; 10th,
$254,580; 11th, $478,847.
The loans to the amount of about $1,
000,000 are reported to have been ob
tained from the local banks within a
week by merchants who fear an early
passage of a new' tariff law. The pay
ments have Included largo withdrawals
of woolen goods and of tobacco.
Total amount of duties due on goods In
bonded warehouses here is close to $20,
000,000.
TENNESSEE STANDS FIRM
The Legislature Passes the Railroad
Commission Bill and the Constitu
tional Convention Bill.
Nashville, Temn., March 12,-^Today was
perhaps the liveliest the Tennesse legisla
ture has seen since the assemblies of re
construction years. T7ie fight being
waged against railroad domination in
state politics came to a show down and
the corporations met decisive defeat in
two notable instances; first in the house
when a mandatory railroad commission:
bill was passed by a vote of 52 to 47; then
the constitutional convention bill passed
by both houses with a good majority.
The result of the parliamentary battles
1s something of a surprise, though the
friends of both measures claimed victory
all the time. Possibly the vigorous fight
made by the railroads against the demo
cratic ticket, both state and national,
In the last campaign, had more to do
with their emphatic overthrow today
than anything else.
The senate refused to endorse the OIney
arbitration treaty, notwithstanding the
vigorous fight made by the friends of the
measure. The vote stood 12 to 13.
SENATORIAL CAUCUS
Held by the Republicans to Nominate a
United States Senator—Hunter Is
Leading.
Louisville, Ky., March 12.—A Frank
fort despatch received at 7:30 o’clock
says the republican joln.t senatorial
caucus will tonight nominate ex-Con
gressman W. G. Hunter for United States
senator unless the anti-Hunter forces d -
vetop more strength than they arc now
credited with. Ex-Senator Blackburn ar
rived at Frankfort today and Is ready
to make a strong fight by contesting the
election of one of the republican sena
tors.
The legislature which meets In extra
session at noon tomorrow Is composed of
70 republicans, 66 free silver and gold
democrats and two populists. Senator
Ogilvie, a free silver democrat, will not
be present owing to a severe illness.
By an agreement between the mana
gers ef the candidates no nomination
was made tonight by the republican sen
atorial caucus. The caucus at which
the compromise was effected was a secret
one. The nominations for senator were
ex-Congressman John w." Lewis, of
Springfield; ex-Congressman W. G. Hun
ter. St. John Boyl-e, and ex-Chlef Justice
W. H. Holt. The session lasted until
11 o’clock, when the caucus adjourned
until 9 o’clock tomorrow morning when
balloting will begin.
Dr. Hunter claimed to have 37 voles
at tonight’s session. There Is no doubt
but that he had the winning hand, but
he did not want to show his power and
cause a breach In the republican ranks
this early In the game. Bight members
were absent.
RAILROAD BATE WAR CASE.
Norfolk, Va„ March 12.—The argument
to the demurrer in the noted railroad
rate war case closed this afternoon, and
the matter was taken under advisem-nt
by Judge Hughes. The demurrer was ar
gued by Messrs. Smyihe and Thom for
the trust companies, and by Mr. Robert
M. Hughes for the Seaboard Air-Line.
It Involves the Jurisdiction of the court
and the right of the bondholders Individ
ually to Interfere in the affairs of a raod
except through the trustees.
The decision 1b not looked for for sev
eral weeks.
PACIFIC COAST JOCKEY CLUB.
San Francisco, March 12.—At a meet
ing of the directors of the Pacific Coast
Jockey club today the resignations of
President A. B. Sprockets and Secretary
W. S. Leake were accepted, and S. H.
Androus and J. (E. Tade were elected
president and secretary, respectively.
THE SUIT J$_ ANNULLED
Against the American Tobacco
Company, Known as ,
fp*- , • ve]
THE TOBAGO TRUST BILL
s
The Court Hoi/ Has Not the Power to Re
strain C. R ations Because of Some
If ® jlarity in Organizing.
to
TrentoifViS'. J„ March 12.—In the suit
brought to annul the charter of the
American Tobacco company and break
up what is known as the Tobacco trust,
Vice Chancellor Reed this morning filed
an opinion dismissing the bill and ending
the pr;sent litigation against the com
pany. In the language of the vice chan
cellor, the action was brought "to re
strain the defendants from transacting
their business and from conducting it in
a manner prejudicial to the complainants
aid injurious to the people of the state
of New Jersey.”
The bill was filed by Attorney-General
Stockton on the petition of J. R. and
Frank W. Miller, Jobbers in paper cigar
ettes. with whom t)ie American Tobacco
company refused to deal, according to the
allegation of the Millers. because they
persisted in also handling “Admiral"
cigarettes, manufactured by a rival cor
poration. Among other things, th- bill
filed set out that for many years prior to
January 21. 1830, the manufacturers, com
prising the American Tobacco company,
transacting their business Independently
of each other, the trust was then formed,
being composed of William H. Kimball
and James T. Hart, under the firm name
of W. S. Kimball & Co., of Rochester;
Charles G. Emery, member of the firm
name of Goodwin & Co., of Now York;
Allen & Glnter, of Virginia; W. Duke
Sons company, of North Carolina, and
the Kinney Tobacco company, of New
York.
The capital stock was $25,000,000, and
they have'been selling »5 per cent, of all
the cigarettes sold In the country.
The complainants allege that soon
after they began dealing in "Admiral"
cigarettes, they received a communica
tion from the American Tobacco com
pany, which expressed their displeasure.
This was followed by a refusal of the
American Tobacco company to sell them
more goods. Vice Chancellor Reed holds
that the equity court has no jurisdiction;
that the proceedings should have been
brought In the nature of quo warranto
and that corporations have a right when
legally formed, to deal with the same as
Individuals. The point raised by the
complainants and Vice Chancellor Reed’s
full views may be inferred from the fol
lowing syllabus, which he has attached
to the decision:
First—A court of equity does not pos
sess the power t.o restrain a corporation
organized under the forms of law from
performing acts within Its corporate
power, merely because some of the steps
taken In organizing the company may
have been Irregular or because the pur
pose of the Incorporation may have been
to-establish a monopoly.
S cond—Under these conditions quo war
ranto Is the proper proceedings to chal
lenge the right of the corporation to ex
ercise its franchises.
Third—A trading or manufacturing
corporation, until Its charter Is annulled
by such a proceeding of law. has the
same authority as an Individual trader
or manufacturer to sell or consign Its
goods, to select Its selling agents and
impose conditions as to whom they shall
sell, and the terms upon which they shall
sell.
Fourth—A decree restraining the offi
cers and agents of a corporation from ex
ceeding corporate acts 1? the same as
the decree enjoining the corporation It
self
R. V. Ldndabury. of Elizabeth, and
Joseph Choate, of New York, conducted
the case for the American Tobacco com
pany.
ORANGE FREE STATE
Seeking a Closer Union With the Trans
vaal.
London, March 12.—A dispatch from
Bloomfontein, the capital of the Orange
Free State, says that President Kruger
Is visiting that pi3ce with a view to the
arrangement of a closer utiion with the
Transvaal. At a luncheon at which he
was entertained, the Boer president, re
plying to a toast by President Steyn,
said he was not there to controvert the
queen’s rights. Time, he said, would sho
that he had always defended her ma
jesty and he had told the people to re
spect her.
He expressed hope that the two repub
lics would form Indissoluble ties, but he
never entertained any Idea of the Free
State being absorbed by the Transvaal.
He concluded by expressing the hope
that some day he would see a union of
tthe whole of Africa.
DRY GOODS MARKET,
Heavy Rains Interferes With Traffic—
Spring Trade Not Equal to Require
ments.
New York, March 12—Heavy Rain in
terfered with store trade in the dry
goods market during the forenoon, but
with better weather the business pick
ed up somewhat. It is evident that the
spring business in both staple and fancy
printed fabrics has not so far gone any
length ahead of requirements for cur
rent distribution, there being ample evi
dence still that no stocks of any accounts
are carried In second hands So much
cannot be said of domestics in brown,
bleached or colored goods, tho readiness
with which the sellers accept orders com
ing to them at current prices being proof
enough that there is no lack of ready
supplies. In thn woolen goods division,
business haB been quiet today and with
out new features of moment.
THE ARBITRATION TREATY. *
Considered by the Senate, But No Con
clusion Reached.
Washington, March 12.—The senate
committee on foreign relations today con
sidered the arbitration treaty with
Great Britain for an hour or so without
reaching any conclusion. A further
meeting will be held Monday. Prior to
the adjournment Chairman Davis put
each senator on his honor not to say any
thing about the discussion. It is known,
however, that the committee favors the
amendment previously reported, eliminat
ing from, the scope of the treaty all ques
tions pertaining to the domestic or for
eign policy of each party, and a new one.
that will prohibit the selection of mem
bers of the supreme court of the United
States as members of the court should
the treaty be agreed to. ■ «, 3
_IBIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD,
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, MARCH 14, 1897.-TWELVE PAGES. NUMBER 48
THE TRANSVAAL REPUBLIC
■
Now Occupies the Attention of
Great Britain
MORE SO THAN GREECE
John Bull Will Oust the Dutch President,
Kruger, if He’ll Let 'lm— Sher
man Qucted.
London, March 13,—(Copyright 1897 by
the Sun Printing and Publishing Com
pany.)—Public attention has been so con
centrated for several weeks upon the
crisis in the east that little notice has
fete® taken of the really critical relations
now existing between Great prltain and
the Transvaal tepublic. There Is strong
reason for believing that the English
government is seeking the earliest oppor
tunity or excuse for making one more
nttempt to crush the little republic, which
so many ‘times has successfully repuls'ed
British invasions. Colonial Secretary
Chamberlain is credited with just #sueh
an outrageous policy, and his attitude on
several recent occasions has done much
to justify the suspicion. He emphasized
repeatedly in his' examination of Mr.
Rhodes before the Sou h African commis
sion his conviction that the present re
gime in the Transvaal cannot continue,
and openly intimated that the British
government would have given full sup
port to an ultimatum in the drifts ques
tion last October, had it been necessary.
All of Mr. Chamberlain’s nicest utter
ances in parliament in reference to the
Transvaal have been sarcastic and in
tolerant. He openly declares that the re
lations between the two countries are
gravely strained. There has been free
talk within a few days of an ultimatum
to President Kruger, with Lord Wolse
ley and 40,000 troops in the background.
There is, of course, every effort to make
it appear that President Kruger is taking
the defensive, but nobody need be de
ceived thereby. The keen old statesman
of the rand knows perfectly well that
England is trying to pick a quarrel with
him, and he is simply malting ready, as
he should do, for one more gnllani. de
fense of the Boer liberties agair.st the
rapacious greed of gold-worshipping
Englishmen. This week he was making
speeches in the Orange Free State, where
he has been on a mission which is pretty
well understood to include a statement
nf an offensive as well as a defensive al
liance of thetwo African republics
against England. His peculiar style of
oratory is not relished in England, where
everybody is ready to take effease
whether it is intended or not. He talked
cheerfully about the way his keen-eyed
burghers had shot Englishmen when the
foreigners had Invaded the Transvaal,
and the fact ‘that his assertion perfectly
accords with thb facts, does not sweeten
it for British patriots. In another speech
the old man paid ponderous compliments
to Queein Victoria, or ait any rate the
world has been given to understand that
they were meant to be compliments.
Among other remarks, he declared that
the queen was "een kwaja vrouw.” an.l
a controversy is now raging as to the
meaning of this phrase. Beuters Tel
egraph company .wich is the official Boer
ageno/y as far as South African news is
concerned, translates the remark as “a
difficult woman.”
The Central News, which In South
African affairs is ultra British, cables
from Cape Town that Mr. Kruger’s
words were meapt to be contemptuous,
and that their literal and also coilequial
meaning is “an angry woman,” or
"shrewd.”
The London Globe, which may he fair
ly regarded as the organ of Mr. Rhodes,
says the expression is frequently used in
the Transvaal with reference to bad
tempered animals which, when annoyed,
kick or bite. Tims “een kwake mannet
je” is an expression applied to cock os
trich which is an habitual and vigorous
kicker. Mr. Kruger, it is urged, really
intended to describe Queen Victoria as a
vicious woman. Whatever Mr. Kruger
meant, Englishmen are bound to put
the word construction on it. As to his
mission to the Orange Free State, priv
ate cables indicate that he will probably
fail as to his main object as the smaller
republic has no desire for high place.
One can scarcely take up an English pa
per now without’finding in some form
or another the obviously absurd accusa
tion that President Kruger has the de
sign to provoke England to war. Cer
tainly the valiant old republican shows
a fine contempt of British susceptibilities
and stoutly declines to accept as a rule
of faith the proposition that the English
are a heaven-sent race, which sooner or
later must determine South Africa.
Moreover, he vehemently declines to al
low England to interfere in the domestic
concerns of his country, but he has done
absolutely nothing to justify the charge
that he would be such a fool as to force
a war.
It was announced today that a month
■hence the royal Irish regiment, one of the
finest corps of the British army, will sail
for South Africa, nominally to relieve
certain troops at Cape Colony, and Na
tal, but It really is intended as a re
inforcement to a garrison which is al
ready largely in excess of normal re
quirements. It may be added and the
announcement Is made public for the
first time, that the commanders of sev
eral British regiments now in India have
been secretly warned that their corps
may be required for active service in
South Africa before the summer has far
advanced.
The Telegraph today declares that a
well known millionaire has just offered
over £5,000 for the use on jubiiee day of
three small windows belonging to a week
ly newspaper with its publishing office in
Ludgate circus, which is by- no means a
first-class position and that the offer was
refused.
Mr. Bayard, after spending a month on
the Riviera and in Italy, will sail for New
York at the end of April.
A good deal of Interest Is taken here In
a long report In the Times of an inter
view yesterday between Mr. Smalley and
Mr. Sherman, the new secretary of state.
It is represented that Mr. Sherman favors
the arbitration treaty, but la luke-warni
regarding its details and is willing to
accept any form of a treaty. The sec
retary declares that he will continue the
Olney policy with regard to Cuba and
Spain. American citizens will be pro
tected by the American government.
Those who under cover of American na
tionality engage In hostilities against
Spain must acWpt the eoftsequendes of
their acts. Those who are pursuing law
ful oceupacions In a lawful way will be
held entitled to Mm protection of law ancty
treaties, and in their behalf no efforts
will be spared should they be geized on
suspicion. "There will be no war with
Spain,” the Interview goes on. "We
want none. Wo have no reason to be
lieve that Spain wants war. If Spain
would give me a quit claim deed to the
Island of Cuba I would not have It.”
Mr. Sherman said he was opposed to
•all annexation, think ng the United States
big enough already. He repelled the no
tion of desiring the annexation of Canada,
peaceably or otherwise. "It is for the
Interest of neither. I have already stated
my views against annexation. My dream
for the remote and permanent future of
this North American continent is three
great republics—Canada, the United
Btates and Mexico—but I would not take
a step to alter things as they nre. What
is to come hereafter must come by na
tural political evolution."
HORRIBLE DEATH
Of an Engineer—His Fireman Pinned
Down and Unable to Help Him.
Chattanooga, Tenn., March 13 —A wash
out on a branch line of the railway ex
tending from Shellmound, Term., to the
convict camp of the Dade Coal company
at Coal City, Ga., today caused the wreck
of a switch engine and the death of the
engineer, J. T. Stewart. The fireman,
by name Gogle, received Internal injuries
that will prove fatal. The accident oc
curred in a level country and the engineer
did not perceive that the bridge over an
ordinarily email stream had been swept
away. The locomotive plunged down
a steep embankment and rolled over.
The fire box emptied lbs contents upon
the prostrate engineer, who was burned
to death, begging piteously for the fire
man to end his sufferings by killing him.
but the latter was pinned beneath the
engine and was forced to see his fellow
trainmen die before his eyes. d
LOVE’S YOUNG DREAM.
An Engaged Couple Find a Horrible
Death Preferable to Marriage.
Fort Wayne, Ind., March 13.—William
E. Colerick, one of the most brilliant and
eloquent young lawyers of Indiana, was
found dead on a lounge in '.he front room
at the home of his fiance. Miss Mae Hall,
In this city, at 9 o’clock this morning,
and Miss Hull was found unconscious
in her own room at the rear of the same
residence. Roth hud taken carbolic acid.
'Miss Hall Is at Hope hospital, where her
death Is hourly expected. Mis. Hall,
mother of he young lady, has gone to
St. Paul to be married.
GOV, JOSEPH JOHNSTON
And Ma^or Frank V. Evans Will
Welcome
THE VISITING DELEGATES
To the National Convention of the Clerks’ Be
nevolent and Protective Associa
tion in July. •
Already the local clerks are perfecting ar
remgements for the entertainment of the
visiting delegates to the Clerks’ National
convention, which is to bo held in this city
during the second week of July.
It has been definitely settled that the ad
dresses of welcome are to be delivered by
Gov. Joseph F. Johnston and Mayor Frank
V. Evans. Other addresses by prominent
people are being arranged.
The following letters, which have been re
ceived by W. H. Walker, the hustling sec
retary of the Clerks’ Benevolent and Pro
tective association., are self-explanatory:
Montgomery, Ala., March 12, 1S97.
Mr. W, H. Walker, Secretary of the R. C.
N. P. A.. Birmingham, Ala.
Dear Sir—I have your polite note of the
10th inst., and am pleased to say that it
will give me pleasure to welcome in be
half of the state, the members of the na
tional convention of the Retail Clerks’ Pro
tective association of the United States on
the 13th day of July, unless prevented by
public business. Ycurs respectfully,
JOSEPH F. JOHNSTON,
Governor.
Birmingham. Ala., March 11, 1897.
Mr. W. H. Walker, Secretary Bocal 123, B.
C. N. P. A., City.
My Dear Sir—Replying to your compli
mentary favor of the 10th inst., inviting me
to deliver the address of welcome at the
session of the national convention of the
Retail National Protective Association of
the United States, which meets in this city
on July 13, it will afford me pleasure to com
ply with your request in my humble way.
With kind wishes, yours very truly,
F. V. EVANS, Mayor.
If the auditorium can be completed In
time, the clerks will have the first conven
tion within its walls. Extra efforts are be
ing made to complete it in time.
Neither pains nor expense will be spared
to make the visiting delegates have a most
enjoyable time and it goes without saying
that the convention will be a great success
in every particular.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 13.—Cloudy, warm
weather and 6,000 people marked today’s
sport, a race for gentlemen riders being
an extra attraction. The track was fast
and results against the public, only two
post favorites winning.
First Race—Six furlongs. Rouble, 105
(Gatewood), 10 to 1, won; Miss Rowett,
second; Katherine, third. Time, 1:16%.
Second Race—Seven furlongs. Seelbach, i
102 (Clay), 15 to 1, won; Earth, second; Pa
trol, third. Time, 1:30.
Third Race—Mile and a furlong. Tenoch
titlan, 109 (Knapp), 11 to 5, won; Otho, sec
ond; Jack the Jew, third. Time, 1:58%.
Fourth Race-^Seven furlongs: Gaston,
100 (T. Burns), 2 to 1, won: Alamo, second;
Alkyris, third. Time, 1:29%.
Fifth Race—One mile. Parmesan, 101
(T. Bums), 2 to 1. won; Senator Penrose, l
second, Nalreto, third. Time, 1:44.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Proverb. 145 ;
(Mr. Fenner), 4 to 1, won; Twelve Fifty,
second; Plutus, third. Time, 1:19.
Seventh Race—Six furlongs. Sobriquet,
90 (T. Burns), 3 to 1, won; Longbrook, sec
ond; Nover, third. Time, 1:16.
WILL BE BUILT.
The Mobile and Ohio Kxtension to Mont
gomery Now a Certainty, With
Branch Roads to Coal Fields.
New York, March 13.—It Is announced
that negotiations looking to the exten
sion of the Mobile and Ohio railroad to
Montgomery, Ala., have been success
fully completed by the sale of $4,000,000
5 per cent, bonds of the Mobile and Ohio
Railway company, having fifty years to
run, principal and interest payable In
gold, and secured 'by a first lien upon
the Montgomery division of the Mobile
and Ohio railroad, including therein two
branches to the Warrior and Cahaba
coal fields and their equipment, to which
the proceeds of part of the bonds are to
be applied^
The construction of this division yelll
add about 200 miles tp_ the Mobile ahd
Ohio system, and will give It an import?
ant terminus at Montgomery. Terminal
grounds and facilities granted by 'the
city of Montgomery have been secured at
that point and at Tuscaloosa.
By nctfi of congress authority has been
given to the Mobile and Ohio railroad to
construct bridges across the Alabama,
Cahaba and Warrior rivers.
It Is expected that the Montgomery
i division will be In operation early in 1888.
REED, UNANIMOUS CHOICE
Of the Republican House Caucus
for Speaker.
THE CHOICE OF THE PARTY
And Nominated When this House Was Elected,
Said Payne, of Hew York—Other
Officers Re-elected,
Washington, March 13.—Speaker Reed
was unanimously nominated for Speaker
of the house at tonight’s republican cau
cus. The attendance of members was
unusually large, 192 of the 203 republi
cans'being present. The new members
were conspicuously numerous. Mr. Payne,
of New York, was selected to place Mr.
Reed in nomination. He referred in flat
tering terms to Mr. oRied’s popularity in
the house. He said that Mr. Reed was
nominated when this congress was elec
ted; that he was the choice of the repub
lican party, and that it was the business
of the caucus to respond to this popular
demand. When Mr. Payne had taken his
seat, Mr. Grosvenor, of Ohio, who occu
pied (he chair, put the motion, and it wa3
adopted without a dissenting vote. Mr.
Payne, of New York, and Mr. Cannon,
of Illinois, two Of the veteran members
of the house, were designated to escort,
tlje speaker, who was quietly seated in
his private office, to the floor. As he en
tered, all the members rose to their feet
and greeted him with a hearty burst of
applause. Mr. Reed bowed his acknowl
edgements, and standing in the area be
fore the sipeaker’s desk said:
"Gentlemen:—I am very greatly grat
ified by your kind action '.anight and will
try to serve your wishes with whatever
ability I have.
“We have again, as in the last con
gress, a politically divided legislative
power. The house of representatives will
be republican by ti considerable majority
and fresh from the people, and will en
deavor to cany out their wishes. I do
not doubt your determination to do all
in your power to bring this session of
congress to a speedy close. Our duty i3
simple, and the people expect us to per
form it at once, and (hen leave to them
the recovery of the country from th?
stagnation and depression of business
which have so sorely tried the patience
of a vigoiou's and growing people.
"What others may see fit to do, we do
not know, but we have strong hopes that
all blanches of the government will be
in accord as to the policy of giving to the
people immediately whatever relief their
wisdom may devise."
Mr. Dingley, of Maine, chairman of the
committee on ways and means, next took
the floor and briefly addressed (he cau
cus on the work of his committee. He
pointed out the necessity of speedy ac
tion on the tariff bill, and explained that
it would be promptly reported on (he re
assembling of congress.
He created some enthusiasm in con
cluding by his declaration that the tariff
should be so adjusted as to raise what
ever revenue was needed, without addi
tional sales of bonds.
Mr. Walker, of Massachusetts, offered
a resolution providing for a commit
tee of seven members to revise the rules.
W. A. Stone, of Pennsylvania, made a
motion to adjourn. This, amid some con
fusion, was voted down and Mr. Wal
ker was permitted to proceed with his
remarks. He criticised the rules and
maintained that an impression existed
that they did not permit that freedom oij
debate which the house desired.
Mr. Mahany, of New York, followed in
a few remarks in which he asserted that
the gag lav.’ which was sc prominent in
the Fifty-fourth congress did not die
in that congress, but had been rc-enact
ed here. That it was the usual trick of
self constituted leaders temporarily to
move the adoption of the rules of the
preceding congress, but that it was easi
er to move "Mount Aetna” than to se
cure their amendment after this was
done.
The Walker resolution was tabled. A
resolution was adopted which requires
the chairman of the caucus to call a
caucus when requested by twenty-five
members in writing.
All the present house officers were then
re-nominated.
They are as follows:
Henry N. Ooudon, of Michigan, chap
lain; Alexander McDowell, of Pennsyl
vania, clerk; Benjamin A. Russell, of
Missouri, sergeant-at-arms; W. J. Glenn,
of New York, doorkeeper.
At 8:50 the caucus adjourned.
THEY ARE NAMED.
Coal Oil Inspectors Announced by the
Auditor—Walter Moore, of This
City, For Ninth District.
Montgomery, March 13.—(Special.)—
Auditor White today announced the fol
lowing coal oil inspectors for Ala
bama:
First district—A. S. Lyons, Mobile.
Second district—T. D. McGough, Mont
gomery.
Third district—W. A. Bellamy, Seale.
Fourth district—E. A. Scott, Selma.
Fifth district—A. T. Stanley, LaFay
ette.
Sixth district—C. B. Turner, Tusca
loosa.
Seventh district—J. R. Hughes, Gads
den.
Eighth district—J. N. Allen, Sheffield.
Ninth district—Walter Moore, Birm
ingham.
TWO ASSISTANTS
—
To Secretary of the Treasury Gage
Named—The Other Not Known.
Washington, March 13.—It is stated'
with positiveness that two of the three
assistant secretaries of the treasury have
been determined upon.' They are Gen. L.
O. Spaulding, of Michigan, and W. B.
Howell, of New Jersey. The third as
sistant will be determined upon after a
conference between Secretary Gage apd
the president. G?n. Spaulding was ap
pointed assistant secretary and given
charge of the customs work of the office
under Secretary Windom.
Mr. Howell is at present private secre
tary to Assistant Secretary Hamlin.
MRS. ROTE’S PETITION.
Washington, March 13.—The petition of
Mrs. Ruiz, widow of the dentist, Rich
ard Ruiz, was delivered to Secreiary
Sherman today. It covers eight pages of
note paper, the last of which is devoted j
to the signature, and, ls_whoIIy Ini Span- |
lsh. The secretary has given no intima
tion of what his action will be, and until
the petition is duly mmslated he will
not determine wKat disposition to make
of it.
BOTH TRAINEOJP M EDGE
Says Al Smith of Corbett and
Fitzsimmons.
BOTH ARE IN FINE SHAPE
And To Pick the Winner Is More Than He
Dare Undertake—The Men Train
ing for Blood.
Carson City, Nev., March 13.—The final
work on the arena where Corbett and
Fitzsimmons will meet on St. Patrick’s
Day was concluded this afternoon when
the reserved strata were numbered. The
kinetoscope was put in place at the ring
side, and tire arrangments whereby the
big mill con be revet wed at leisure by
thousands all completed and only re
quires fine weather to make the pictures
a success. The sun had almost the fierce
ness of summer heat and its drying qual
ities were quickly manifested by the ap
pearance ot the roads, which, though still
muddy In spots, were sufficiently dried
off to enable booh men to do some twelve
miles of outdoor woik. The effect of
yesterday’s pow-wow over Siler s inter
pretation of the rules was manifested In
the work of both men today.
Fitzsimmons was particularly atten
tive to hitting on the break and clinches,
and Roeber and Hickey wore a gory ap
pearance as a resul t of the Cornish man s
practice. Coibett, too, old a lot of in
fighting, ar.d Hilly Woods' pneumatic
novice aid not avail him much in* the way
of protection from Jim’s short-arm
punches. Corbett’s foo. work was most
admirable, and none of the squad were
able to make him extend himself. The
Californian s quarters were the Mecca ot
all sight-seers today, and Charley White
had his hands full in keeping the crowd,
of which two-third's were women, ftom
encroaching too much on the limited
space In the handball court.
Fitzsimmons has recovered from the
shock he received when Corbett delib
erately fouled him, according to the
Cheitirfield rules, and he was in great
humor today. H;- took a good beating at
quoits without a murmur, and adml.ted
a number cf deadheads to see him at
work. From a short spin on the wheel
he turned to the punching bag for ten
rounds, winding up with a geyser dis
play of hard hitting. Earnest Roeber
was first man up with the gloves. Bob
invited the man from Hanover to "come
in and fight," and Earnest accepted the
Invitation. With true pugilist hospital
ity Fitzsimmons met him at the door
and opened a cut about tho German’s ear.
Roeber kept "corning In" just the same
and at the end of the third and last round
both men were smeared with blood.
Hickey laughed at Ernest’? misery, hut
he lost bis smile when Fitzsimmons’ split
open his forehead in a breakaway Three
rounds were all Dan wanted and Stenzler
was thankful when his boxing engage
ment was declared off.
Bob’? Inside work concluded with a few
games of hand ball. Hi sprinted twelve
miles in the afternoon behind a horse
and buggy driven by his wife and retlredl
early.
Corbett was even more vicious than the
Australian. He puffed up Jeffries' Up
with a straight left and dished up a few
hot. ones to Billy Woods, spattering
Woods’ mask with blood and splitting his
lower lip. "Brother Joe” was more cau
tious than the others and kept at a re
spectful distance. Jim wore out Sprinter
Ryan and Billy Beianey on the road be
fore noon, covering twelve miles' alto
gether In his morning's walk. He spent
considerable time with the dumb bells
and clubs, contrary to his usual custom.
The wrist machine was not neglected and
the punching bag was given an extra
whirl. Three fast games of hand ball
left the champion in a nice perspiration
for liis afternoon’s boxing. He was not
so irritable as yesterday nor did the
presence of the crowd seem to annoy him
so much. Not less than fifty vehicles
were down near the hand ball court and
every knot hole commanded a premium.
A mob of some small boys climbed up on
the roof and many of them passed In
through thO skylight a^pd perched among
the raifters. Jefflrles, Woods and Joe
Corbett each sparred four speedy rounds
and McVey took his customary trounc
ing. Jim has the knack of hitting In
clinches down to a. fine point and his box
ing companions all bear red spletehes on
their chests as a result Upper-cutting
he does not seem to favor His arms
swing less rigid than Fitzsimmons1’ and
he keeps well over the guard in a mix-up.
The general appeas-ance won over a num
ber of new eastern experts who saw him
today for the first time.
A1 Smith, of New York, final stake
holder in the big mill, arrived from San
i^ancisco this afternoon and headed for
the Bullion bank where he deposited $25,
000 in certificates. This amount will be
handed over to the winner on St. Pat
rick’s day. After visiting Shaw’s
Spring? Cook’s ranch and Stuart’s arena,
Mr. Smith dictated the following Inter
view for distribution to press corre
spondents:
The prospects are the most rosy that
ever attended an affair of this sort. I
find that both of the men are In admira
ble shape, and If there ever was a sin
cere pair of pugilists you have them in
Corbett and Fitzsimmons. I find that
they are trained to an edge and the con
test should be a corker. Such .confi
dence as the men display is astonishing.
Of course, there must be a winner and at
loser, but if you can find the latter or a
line that would lead to that conclusion
by looking over and talking to the men,
you beat me. I cannot for the life of
me recall a contest which presents such
complex questions as this in the matter
of calling the turn. 1 went out to look
over the arena, too, and found it the
best of its sort I ever visited. There is
not a seat in the whole vast structure
which does not present a clear, unob
structed view. The welter and feather
weight fights I look to for a whole lot
of genuine sport. The men are so even
ly matched and have trained so faith
fully, that I would not be a bit sur
prised to see the best fight of the three
crop out in one of the lesser engage
ments. With these conditions backed
up by weather, such as one would expect
to find in tropical lands, this time of
year, I predict that Mr. Stuart will get
some returns for the ceaseless and un
tiring pluck he has displayed. It would
take a whole lot of money to induce me
to miss the treat I know is in store for
the lovers of the manly art.
("Signed.") .“AL SMITH.”
The two pool rooms are not taking In
enough money to pay room rent. A fa
vorite combination is Corbett, Green
and Hawkins, and the odds against the
trio have been cut down from 5 to 3 to
1. The wad of eastern money which was
supposed to go on Fitzsimmons is not
in sight and there appears to be enough
San Francisco coin behind Corbett to
keep the odds where they were, 10 to 7,
with Fitzsimmons at the short end.
Excursion rates from the Pacific coast
were effective today and trains are head
ed for Carson City from all points In the
west. Ticket sales are light In Carson,
but a good demand ts reported from
the west.
KENTUCKY LEGISLATURE.
Convenes In Extra Session—Surprise In
Store for Hunter On the First Ballot.
Frankfort. Ky., March 13.—The extra
session of the house opened at 10 o’clock
and the senate convened at noon. The
Blackburn men- have sprung a new
scheme to defeat Hunter. On the first
ballot the silver and sound money dem
ocrats will vote for Gov. Bradley, and
so may a dozen republican*.
At the conclusion of the reading of th'
governor’s message bath houses adjourn
ed until Monday without taking any ac
tion on the question of when to btgln
balloting for senator.
POPULISTS IN CAUCUS.
Washington, March 13.—A joint cau
cus of the populists of the senate and
house was held tonight more for the
purpose of permitting the members to
get acquainted with each other than to
outline any particular policy. Speeches
were made by Senators Allen and But
ler and by various members of the house.
The representatives will meet Monday
morning at 10:30 to nominate their can
didate for speaker.
NOT READY UNTIL MONDAY.
Washington. March 13.—Gov. Dingloy,
chairman of the committee of ways and
moans, states that the tariff bill will not
be completed until Monday morning, and
that it will not be given to the press tn
authentic and complete form until it 13
ready to be presented to the house, which
will probably be Monday afternoon.
LAiMONT’S FAMILY LEAVE.
Washington1. March 13.—Mrs. D. S. La
mont and children, accompanied by Mr.
Segar, private secretary to ex-Becretary
Lamomt, will leave Washington this even
ing for Old Point Comfort in Col. La
ment’s special car.
LONDON BOOKIES TO GO.
London, March 13.—Five of the Judges
of the queen’s bench division of the high
court of justices-today delivered Judg
ment in the case of Dunn, the book
maker ,at Tattersalls, deciding that ring
betting Is illegal. This decision will wipe
out the book makers and effect a revolu
tion in betting.
RETURNED HOME,
Louis Schotts, the Insane Wanderer, Ac
companied by His Brother-In-Law,
Leaves fpr Varona, Pa.
Louis Schotts, the alleged Insane white
man, who was found near the Sloss fur
nace some time ago, has returned to his
home at Varona, Pa., In charge of his
brother-in-law, T. J. Huston, of that
place. The latter is the city marshal at
Varona.
Schotts gave $42 and a gold watch to a
negro who turned It over to the police
authorities. This was given to Huston
before he left the city.
It Is said that Schott, who is about 37
years old, was employed in a machine
shop In Pittsburg and always appeared
rational He did not give himself up to
the drinking habit and was considered a
man-of good common sense. It Is thought
that he will speedily recover after his ar
rival at his home.
THE" MISSISSIPPI
Higher Than Ever Known Before—
Memphis’ Experience—Levees
Guarded.
Memphis, Tenn., March 13.—The Mis
sissippi river here now registers a higher
stage of water than ever known. Dis
aster attending this condition began to
day, two Arkansas towns across from
this city being submerged and the In
habitants driven to safer places. iThese
are Marion and West Memphis. The
former is under from three to four feet
of water, due to a break of its protection
levee early this morning. The break oc
curred before many of the inhabitants
had left their beds, and there was a
scene of great excitement, but no loss
of life. Live stock, hov.-ever, is being al
most exterminated, the highest points in
that section being under water. This
city is, of course. In no danger as a
whole, owing to Its natural protection,
but the bayou extending entirely through
the city, 13 overflowing from the river
back-water ar.d threatening damage to
adjoining property. From one of the
largest cotton sheds on its banks today
It became necessary to remove 3.000 bales
of cotton from the waters path. So far
as is known none of the main levees are
trembling under the pressure of water,
but they are being guarded all along the
line.
PACIFIC BLOCKADE INEVITABLE.
Rome, March 13.—It Is positively stated
in semi-official quarters that the powers
have virtually decided to make no reply
to Greece’s answer to the identical note
demanding the withdrawal of the Greek
fleet and troops from Crete, but to pro
ceed at once to take such steps as will
compel Greece to accede to the demands
made upon her. It Is said that the first
step to be taken In this direction will be
the establlshment-of a pacific blockade of
Crete which means that vessels captured
wlille attempting to run the blockade
will not be condemned and sold, but will
be held until the Cretan question shall be
settled when they will be returned to
their owners.
OBEYED ORDERS.
Athens, March 13.—The Greek steamer
Smyrna arrived at Canea this morning.
Immediately after she had come to an
chor, her captain received an order from
one of the foreign admirals directing him
to leave at o-nce. The captain refused to
do so, whereupon the admiral who Is
sued the order sent him notice that he
would be given five minutes In which
to obey the order. If at the expiration
of that time the steamer still remained
in port an armed boat would be sent to
cut her cables. In view of this permp
tory notice, the Smyrna weighed and
left.
■WlALiLINO NOT RESPITED.
Frankfort, Hy., March 13.—Gov. Brad
ley has not respited Alonzo Walling. The.
reports sent out this afternoon that a re
spite of four days had been granted to the
accomplice of Scott Jackson In the mur
der of Pearl Bryan are pronounced to
night by the governor as unwarranted.
He says he has not yet finished reading
the evidence In the case, and will not
finish 'the work before Monday. He will
not say whether or not a respite is prob
able, ns hie says he, of course, will be
guided by the evidence, with which he
is not ns yet familiar.
FRANCE NOT HEARD FROM.
Vienna, March 13.—The Frendonblatt
and other papers of this city state that
Russia, Germany and Austria have in
structed their admirals to take steps with
their colleagues to blockade Crete and
Greece, Great Britain and Italy, It Is said/
are prepared to co-operate, but the de
cision of France is yet awaited.
IS SPAIN GROWING WEAK?
'_
If*
Spani/^is in Havana Wear
/« Weary Looks,
I _
SOPf THING HAS DROPPED
f -
In t^r'hillippines, and the Shock Was Felt
■«t: in Spain—Polavieja Has Been
Expelled,
Havana, March 13.—(Via Key West.
Fla., March 13.)—Very little news has
reached Havana cf what has happened
In tho Philippines. Local newspapers
have received long telegrams, but their
publication's have been prohibited by the
censor. He only allowed the new* of
Polavleja’s resignation on the plea of
sickness, and this has caused a great
sensation amongst the Spaniards, all dis
believing the story, and attributing It
either that he has been defeated in front
of Cavite or worse still, that the Span
iards have actually been expelled from
the islands. The Spaniards fetl despond
ent, and more so when It is known that
Spain, being unable to send more rein
forcements to the Philippines or unwill
ing to send the regular troops stationed
in Spain to hol'd the Carlisle or republi
cans in check, has decided to withdraw
20,000 or 25.000 troops from Cuba, ar.d un
der'the pretext that they are sick ar.d
disabled. In order not to call attention of
either the Spaniards or the insurgents,
they will be sent back to Spain at once.
Woyler has agreed to tho scheme, and
this explains the reason of hi* recent or
ders calling to the volunteer ranks all
the able bodied men willing to Join them,
in order to fill the gaps left by the troop-*
which are to be sent to Spain. People
here consider this measure as Spain’s
first confession of weakness and impo
tency to finish the Cuban revolution and
a preliminary step to the final abandon
ment of the same.
Great rejoicing was manifested in
Guanabacoa, the other night when the
notorious Fonsdevlela left the place to
take charge of his forces operating
around Compo, Fla. Dancing parties
were organized in many private residenc
es and the numerous families who had
left the place have announced their in
tention of returning. Colonel Tejerlzo,
appointed in command, has the reputa
tion of being an upright Spanish offi
cer and he has already announced his
intention to govern Guanabacoa with
great Justice and fairness.
Ail the Cuban residents of Bejuc^l are
fleeing in terror from the town. The
passenger train which arrived yester
day from the place was packed to over
flowing with families who have hurried
ly left It horrified at the awful butcher
ies committed the night previous. It
se-;ms the Spanish garrison of troops
and volunteers enraged at the repeat
ed attacks made on the town by the
rebels, but too cowardly to meet them in
the open fields or fight them In the
streets of the same, are wreaking ven
geance on peaceful residents on the plea
that they are in sympathy with the Cu
ban patriots and twenty of them were
taken out of their homes late Thursday
night and butchered in the outskirts.
iThelr bodies were left in the open fields
to be devoured by the dogs and vultures.
Vengeance is also being taken on the
helpless women and children who are al
leged to have relations or friends in the
rebel ranks. "
LARRIEU RELEASED.
Charges on Which He Had Been Arrested
Not Given Out.
Washington, March 13.—Consul Hanee
at Cardenas, Cuba, telegraphs the state
department that Frank J. Larrleu had
been released from prison there yester
day. Larrieu’s case had not attracted
much attention and while this govern
ment has been Interested In It for some
time 1t does not appear that any special
efforts were made In his behalf. Accord
ing to the records at the state depart
ment Larrleu is a native of Cuba, na
turalized in tills country. He was ar
rested at Cardenas May 15 last, on
charges never made known, although a
demand for information had been for
mally made by Secretary Olney.
SPAIN HAS TROUBLE AT HOME.
Madrid, March 13.—Carllst agitation is
spreading rapidly in the northern part of
Spain. Armed bands of Carlists are be
ing pursued by troops in the province of
Teruel.
LEE'S FAMILY TO RETURN.
Havana, March 13.—The family of Con
sul-General Lee will return to the United
'Stakes within twoi weeks. This is thought
to be preparatory ito a change in the con
sulship.
WORK OF THE RAIN,
Bent of a Bridge Gives Way and a
Combination Train on the South
ern Goes Into a Creek.
Atlanta, Ga., March 13.—A special from
Rome to the Constitution says that a
combination freight and pa/sengcr train
on the Southern railway was wrecked
there at 3 o’clock this morning. Heavy
rains caused a land slide, which pushed
a bent in the trestle over the Rome rail
road, The engine and one car got over
the trestle safely, but four freight cars
and the express car went through and
fell twenty feet to the tracks below.
When the train broke In two the engine
was pulled off the track and It plunged
down the embankment into the Eto
wah river. A stove In the express car
set fire to the wreck and all the cars,
which had gone through the trestle, were
burned. A freight train came up and
pulled the sleeper dnd a coach away
from the fire.
James T. Pittman, the engineer, went
down Into the river, but swam out.
Kennedy, the fireman; Polk, express
messenger, and Winston, (he baggage
master, were Injured, but none fatally.
Pittman and Kennedy are In the hos
pital at Rome. The others came on to
Atlanta.
RiHL/IEIVE'D THE RECEIVER.
Charleston, S. C, March 13.—Judge
Slmmonton today discharged H. C. Beat
ty as receiver of the Carolina, Knoxville
and Western railroad. The road wos sold
several months ago, and a special master
having reported that the receiver’s ac
counts were correct and closed, Mr. Beat
ty was relieved of his office.
HJGtHT RENOMINATED.
Anniston, March 13.—(SpecieI )—In a
democratic primary today Capt. F. M.
Right, who has been mayor fof two
terms, was renominated over James
Keith, Jr., by a vote of 478 to 386,.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD
__■____y )•_• _
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, MARCH 1U, 1897. NUMBER 49
a terriblT tragedy
Officer Perdue, While Discharg
ing His Duty,
v -* ■■
KILLS AN INNOCENT CHILD
Aiid Wounds a Negro Burglar Who Had First
Sent a Bullet Crashing Into Hi> Face
With Almost Fatal Results.
Sunday .afternoon about 3 o'clock a
shooting scrape on the south side be
twt en a police officer and a negro burglar
resulted in both participants being more
or loss Injured and the unfortunate death
of an Innocent little girl.
Officer Will Perdue had been detailed
to look for a negro named Will Hunter,
who was supposed to have broken Into
and robbed the residence of Mr. Eugene
Giacopazzi, at Fountain Heights. The
officer knew the negro and began to
starch for him on the south side. About
3 o’clock the search proved successful and
the negro was found in a restaurant on
the corner of Alley B and Twentieth
street. The negro was sitting at a table
eating when Office: Perdue walked in and
told him that he was wanted.
Tht negro is said to have looked around
to see who was the officer, and then
paid the proprietor, Annie Wilkerson, for
his meal. When th1 ■ change was handed
back Hunter took it and pretended to
put it in his pocket. Instead he pulled a
32-calibre revolver and, with the remark,
"You and no other white s— of a b—
can't 'arrest me." flivd fit the officer's
head. The bullet struck Officer Perdue
in the chin, breaking the jaw bone, and
lodging In the neck Just below the point
of the jaw.
THE NEGRO FEED
as soon as he fired the shot and started
for the mouth of the alley on the west
side of Twentieth street. Officer Perdue,
suffering intense pain, drew his large
41-ealibre pistol and started In pursuit.
Once out in the street the officer fired at
the fleeing negro without effect.
Tbe officer contiivhed In pursuit and en
tered the alley Just as the negro mounted
a alight elevation nearly half way down
the alley. Again the officer fired, and
Hunter was seen to stagger, but he kept
from falling, and as Officer Perdue shot
for the third time, turned and ran
through a negro shanty into the yard.
About this time Officers J. Ii. Fair and
J. W. McDonald arrived and continued
the chase, while Officer Perdue was taken
to Duncan’s drug store for treatment by
Drs. Brown and Riggs. He was bleed
ing profusely and suffering intense pain.
So great was the pain that Officer Per
due, almost crazed by it. wanted to shoot
Hunter p few minutes later when he
was led back a captive.
Capt. J. B. Donelson and Officer Martin
Eagan were soon on the scene and as
sisted in capturing the negro.
Hunter told a State Herald reporter
yesterday that he did not Jump In the
well, as reported, but that, after running
through the house, he attempted to cross
the fence, but found It too high, and he
then tried to swing himself across the
well, which was on the line. He lost his
balance and
FEET, IN THE WELL,
which is about twenty-five feet deep, and
contained about four feet of water. Hun
ter claimed to have fell head first, and
that his pistol, the two watches and oth
er articles fell out of his pockets. Ho
succeeded in feeling around and recov
ering his pistol. Several of the officers
said that Hunter snapped his pistol three
times at them while he was in the well,
but it failed to explode any of the cart
ridges.
Officer Perdue was taken to the Wil
son & Brown's Infirmary, while the patrol
wagon was called and the negro taken to
the city prison, where Dr. Wilder, the
city physician, attended him. Dr. Wilder
pronounced the wound as fatal, upon ex
amination.
A SMADIi SIZED RIOT
occurred, and for a time matters looked
decidedly serious. When the officers were
holding Hunter on South Twentieth
street, waiting for the arirval of the pa
trol wagon, the crowd of negro men and
women, white men and small boys kept
gathering closer around them. For some
reason a few blows were exchanged, and
the entire mob were soon engaged in a
genera! fighit. Other officers arrived in
time to quiet the rioters before any fatal
blows were struck and peace again
reigned. After rhe trouble had subsided
a negro by the name of John Craft was
arrested as one of the ringleaders. The
specific charge against him Is assault and
battery on. Walter Benneht.
The only damage done to each other by
the beiigerants was a number of bloody
noses and bruised heads and muscles.
After the negro, Hunter, was taken to
jail the trouble was not renewed, but
small groups of excited mer. and women
gathered on the corners to discuss the
tragedy.
THE DEATH OF MYRTISE BOWLING,
an Innocent little 4-year-oid girl bv one
of the stray bullets from Officer Perdue’s
pistol, Is the most deplorable feature of
the occurrence. The child was living
with its mother, Mrs. Candare Bowling,
at 1S25 Avenue B. Sunday afternoon
the child, with other companions, was
playing in the alleyway in the rear of
its mother’s residence. While bending
over a sewer manhole and peering down
through the iron grating, ti ; .deadly bul
let entered its right side almost under
the arm and passed nearly through the
body. The child fell to the ground and
died In a very few minutes, In fact, be
fore she could be carried Into the house.
With the hope of despair Dr. W. W.
Ransom was summoned and when he
pronounced the fact of the child's death,
the sorrow of the Inmates of the room
was' pitiful to behold.
As the child fell, after being shot, her
head hit the iron covering of the man
hole and bruised the forehead and, at
first, this was thought to have caused
its death.
THE LITTLE GIRL’S MOTHER,
Mrs. Candase Bowling, conducts a board
ing house on Avenue B, near Nineteenth
street Her husband, J. L. Bowling,
was for many years foreman of the wood
working department in the Louisville
and Nashville railroad shops in«tliis city.
Two years ago, being afflicted with that
dread and Incurable disease, consump
tion, he was taken to Black Creek Falls,
neai’ CJadf<3“n. where he died.
With the first pangs of sorrow and
grief Mrs. Bowling, as would be natural,
condemned the officer for killing her little
girl. Later on, however, when she had
learned the full story and was told of the
sorrow and regret of Officer Perdue when
he was told of the deplorable accident,
she seemed to forget her own misfor
tune and expressed great sympathy for
the wounded policeman and recognised
the fact that it was entirely accidental.
A TOUCHING INCIDENT
attending the unfortunate accident was
related to a State HCrald reporter at the
grief-stricken home yesterday evening.
Myrtlse. the little girl, never left the
house without kissing her mother before
going out. Sunday her mother told her
it was not necessary to kiss her when
fb wanted to go out to play but the
child persisted and succeeded in, as she
stated, "stealing a kiss from Mamma."
After getting this last kiss, the child
walked Into the parlor where a life-sized
portrait of its dead father rested on an
easle. Going up to this the child kissed
it many times and looked longingly at
its face as if she had a premonition of
her Impending fate. With another fare
well kiss she ran out to play and was
not seen any more until her lifeless body
was brought back Into the house.
THE REMAINS INTERRED.
Yesterday afternoon at 4 o'clock the re
mains of the sweet little child, the victim
of an unfortunate accident, were in
terred in East Lake cemetery. The re
mains were Incased In a beautiful rose
wood coffin, the cover of which, as it
lay on a seat in a special car of the East
Dake electric car line, was almost cov
ered with sweet flowers laid there by lov
ing and sympathizing hands. A large
number cf people accompanied the re
mains to their last resting place. Rev.
Davis, of St. John’s M. E. church, offi
ciated. The deeply sorrowing mother
and little sister and brother of the de
ceased were accompanied by true friends
on the sad journey.
ran. r>. uiauwazzi tajjAS.
No one was more distressed over the
unfortunate tragedy than Mr. E. Gla
copazzi. When seen by a State Herald
reporter yesterday he was reluctant
about discussing the details of the rob
bery, which led up to the dire and dis
tressing results. He spoke of how Hun
ter, who had formerly worked for him,
entered his home and took therefrom
two watches, a pair of shoes and about
$11 in cash. Entrance was effected
through a front window, and the negro
knowing the location of the premises had
little trouble in accomplishing his theft,
save to prevent waking the sleeping in
mates.
By the tracks, which were peculiar,
Mr. Giaeopazzl bad no trouble in locat
ing the thief, and on accosting Hunter
In the city prison learned that his sup
position was correct.
Mr. Giaeopazzl seated that he had no
sympathy for the negro, who had re
marked to him that the reason Ive had
entered his house and stolen therefrom
was to obtain something to eat, at the
same time stating that he would not
have hesitated to kill anyone who might
have offered interference while he was on
the premises. He showed profound dis
tress in referring to uhe death of little
Myrtisa Bowling nr,id the serious injury
of Officer Will Perdue, and stated em
phatically that had he dreamt anyone
would be injured, much less killed, by
the securing of the right party, he would
have remained us silent as the grave.
Not for 100 times the amount stolen, he
mid, would he have had the unfortun
ate tragedy occur. This was a noble
sentiment, emphasizing the true spirit of
a true man.
HUNTER TALKS.
To a State Herald reporter Hunter said
that Officer Perdue fired hjie first shot,
though he Is known to have said more
than one time that he d'ld the first firing.
He is a dangerous negro, and had only
a day or two ago been released from the
chain] gang, where he had served a sen
tence. He has also one time before.
OFFICER PERDUE’S CONDITION.
lAt ft late hour yesterday evening OffL
cer Perdue was resting quietly at his
home, his wound having been dressed
and ail possible relief for the time being
having been given him. •
THE NEGRO WORSE.
At midnight Hunter was reported as
growing worse.
TRADES’COUNCIL
Holds an Interesting; Meeting for the
Transaction of Regular
Business.
The trades council held an Interesting
meeting Sunday afternoon In Fox’s hall,
on Fourth avenue.
President Stanley presided and called
the meeting to order at 2:30 o’clock.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and approved.
A letter was read from the president of
the Federation of Labor in answer to one
written by President Stanley. The let
ter promised aid in the organization of a
state federation and stated that the mat
ter would be called to the attention of
the national convention and officers.
The matter of keeping a register in thd
office of the Labor Advocate for unem
ployed union men to sign, was discussed.
The public school situation came in
for quite a little attention and it was
recommended to keep those responsible
for the present condition in mind and
remember them on future election days.
The report of the expenses of the legis
lative committee, stating that $159 had
been spent, was read and filed.
It was reported that the painters, pa
perhangers and carpenters were being or
ganized and that the Schllllnger Brewing
company had signed the scale of the
Brewers’ Union.
A grievance was received from the
Clerks’ Union stating that one firm had
refused to close at 7 o’clock as promised.
Union men were requested to instruct
their sisters, wives and mothers to de
mand ai union card from every clerk who
waits upon them.
The organization of the lady cle.rks was
suggested and a movement is on foot
to that end.
After transacting other minor matters
the council adjourned.
REPRESENTATIVE MEETING.
Augusta. Ga., March 15.—The meeting
of the American Cotton Growers Protec
tive association, held today, was attend
ed by a very representative body of men.
President Hector D. Lane, of Alabama,
presided, and addressed the convention.
An address was also made by ex-Sena
tor Patrick Walsh. Resolutions were
adopted urging the farmers to first make
the cotton states self-supporting, and
then the area devoted to cotton will yield
more profitable returns than If. they
sought to Increase the number of bales.
While the reduction of the acreage to
be planted In cotiton for the sole pur
pose of reducing the size of the crop
may be impracticable. the increases of
area planted in food crops must inevit
ably bring prosperity to the cotton grow
ers, irrespective of the size of the cot
ton crop. There, has never been a time
in our history that a movement looking
to the Increased produotlon of earn, hay.
oats, hogs and other food crops wfas so
important and necessary.
HIS LIFTER A FAILURE.
Atlanta, Ga., March in.—R. L. Law
rence, cashier for a merchant named
Stephenson, at Elberton, Ga., committed
suicide in 'the Kimball house here today.
Stephenson says that so far os he knows
Lawrence’s accounts are all right. On
Saturday afternoon. Stephenson remark
ed that he Intended to get a new safe and
introduce a new syti.em of bookkeeping.
Lawrence came here yesterday and wired
to his employer to get a new cashter,
adding: "You seem to doubt my integ
rity.” Today he took laudnum. In a
note which he left ho says his Hfe was
a failure. He has relatives living here.
Of Congress Called by President
McKinley
IS NOW DOWN TO WORK
1 Executive Messaee Stating the Necessity for
the Session Suggests an Imperative
Need for a Tariff Law.
Washington. March 15.—The extraor
dinary session of the Fifty-fifth congress
was opened by reading the president’s
proclamation convening It. Sixty-eight
senators answered to the roll call and
the galleries were filled to overflowing.
Mr, W. A. Harris (pop., Kan.) was sworn
in as successor to Mr. Pelfer.
The credentials of Henry W. Corbett,
appointed by the governor of Oregon to
succeed John H. Mitchell, the legislature
having failed to elect, were presented by
Mr. McBride (rep., Ore.), who stated that
Mr. Corbett was present and ready to
take the cuath of office. Mr. Gray (dem.,
Del.) thought that In view of the unusual
circumstances In connection with the
case^he credentials should be referred to
the committee on privileges and elec
tions. They made a motion to that ef
fect and it was agreed to.
After the appointment of committees
to notify the president and the house
that the senate was ready to begin its
duties, a recess was taken until 2 p. m.
At 3:10 Messrs. Hoar (rep., Mass.), and
Cockrell, (dem. Mo.), the committee on
the part of the senate reported that
“the president extended his cordial greet
ings and would communicate in writing
In a short time.”
Assistant Secretary Pruden an
nounced and presented the message,
which was read by the clerk as follows:
The message occupied the undivided
attention of the senators and of the au
dience in the galleries, but no demon
stration followed its conclusion.
Then, on motion of Mr. Allison (rep.,
Ia.) the senate at 3:30 adjourned until
tomorrow at noon.
IN THE HOUSE.
The opening of the Fifty-fifth.congress
in extraordinary session was witnessed
in the house today by an immense crowd
of spectators. The corridors of the cap
Itol were overrun with people an hour
before noon, and although police officers
were stationed at the foot of the marble
stair cases to keep back all who were
not provided with cards of admission,
there were enough persons so provided
to occupy every seat in the galleries.
Of the 357 men who constitute the mem
bership of the house, 132 have never
served before in that capacity, while
sixteen more have served in former con
gresses, making altogether 143 new mem
bers and 203 who served In the last con
gress.
Politically classified there arc 206 re
publicans, 122 democrats and 29 fusion
silverites and populists.
Speaker Reed did not make his appear"
ance on the floor until just before the
stroke of noon.
Alex. McDowell, clerk of the last house,
called the house to order at noon, when
prayer was offered by the blind chap
lain, Mr. Couden.
The clerk then rend the president’s
proclamation convening congress, and
directed the roll of members to be called
by states, alphabetically.
The clerk announced as the result of the
call Chat 337 members had answered to
their names, and at the same time sug
gested that there should be silence on
the floor “so that the galleries may take
part in the proceedings.”
The oddity of r.his request created
laughter among members and spectators.
The next business In order, said the
clerk, is the election of a speaker, and
nominations are now in order.
Mr. Orosver.cr, of Ohio, nominated
Mr. Reed, of Maine; Mr. Richardson, of
Tennessee, nominated Joseph W. Bailey,
of Texas, and John C. Bell, populist, of
Colorado, was put in1 nomination by Mr.
J. S. Simpson, populist, of Kansas.
The clerk stared that there were six
members-elect who=e names were not on
the roil because their credentials had
mat been received by him. Thy were from
the Tenth district of Iowa, Mr. Dolliver;
tho Sixth district of Mississippi, Mr.
Love; the Fourth and Ninth districts of
Tennessee. Messrs. MOMiitin and Pierce;
the First district of Texas, Mr. Bell, and
from Utah, Mr. King.
The election of speaker was then pro
ceeded with, the result being: For Mr.
Reed, 199; for Mr. Bailey, 144; for Mr.
Beil, 21; and for Mr. Newlands, of Ne
vada, 1.
The announcement was applauded on
the floor and In the galleries.
The clerk announced that Mr. Reed,
having received a majority of all the
votes cast, was duly elected speaker, and
he appointed Messrs. Grosvenor, Bailey
and pell to conduct the speaker-elect to
the chair.
A member appealed to th.e clerk to In
sist on order, and the clerk replied that
if every member would keep quiet the
house would be In perfect order, and the
remark was duly appreciated and hailed
with laughter.
'Mr. Reed, having been conducted-to the
chair amid much applause, addressed the
house, expressing his thanks and prom
ising absolute impartiality In administer
ing his office.
The oath of office was them adminis
tered to Mr. Reed by Mr. Harmer, re
publican, of Pennsylvania, the senior
member in consecutive service.
This was followed by the ceremony
of swearing in the members. It was done
by calling the states in alphabe>:tcal order
—the representatives from the states
called lining themselves up in the area
facing the clerk’s desk and holding ,up
their hahds while the speaker admin
istered the oaith to them.
Four repri-seritaj Ives whose names had
not appeared on the clerk’s list were by
unanimous consent permitted to take the
oath of officerSfdqhm hm hm hm hmhm
oath. They were MdMlllln, democrat,’of
Tennessee; Dolltvar, republican, of Ipwa;
Pierce, democrat, of Tennessee, and Bel],
democrat, of Texas.
On motion ofiMr. Grosvenor, republican,
of Ohio, the appointment of the follow
ing officers was made: Alex MoDovtfell,
of Pennsylvania, clerk; Benjamin F. Rus
sell, of Missouri, sergeant-at-arms; Wil
liam J. Glow, of New York, doof-keepar;
Joseph C. MeiElroy, of Ohio, postmaster,
and Henry M. Couden, of Michigan,
chaplain.
The .democratic and populist substi
tutes were formally proposed and re
jected without a division.
The officers thus elected had the oath
administered to them, which Included
the declaration that they would not di
vulge the secrets of the house. Reso
lutions to notify the senate and presi
dent of the organization of the house
were passed and a committee of three
members to Join a like committee on the
part of tins senate was appointed to
wait upon the, pifPldent.
The first bitch In the otherwise smooth
__ _- 0
f * I
' ly acting machinery of organization oc
curred when Mr. Henderson (rep., Ia.)
offered a resolution that, until otherwise
ordered, the rules of the house in the
Fifty-fourth congress be adopted as the
rules of the Fifty-fifth congress and on
this he moved the previous question.
To this another republican member from
Iowa, Mr. Hepburn, proposed an amend
ment, limiting the continuance of those
rules to thirty days from this date.
Mr. McMUlin (dem., Tenn.,> asked Mr.
Henderson Indirectly whether It whs the
purpose of the committee on rules to
report a code of rates and to let the
house have an opportunity to vote upon
them.
“There is no doubt,” said Mr. Hen
derson, "that that will be done. The
house will have the fullest opportunity
to offer amendments to the rules that
will be presented.”
The house was counted on Mr. Hen
derson’s motion for the previous ques
tion and the speaker reported the close
vote of 157 ayes and 168 nays.
Then the speaker announced an addi
tion of one vote to the ayes, making it
a tie, but this was immediately followed
by an addition of one to the noes. The
vote was then taken by yeas and nays
and resulted in ordering the previous
question on Mr. Henderson’s resolution
by 133 yeas and 152 nays—several repub
licans having changed their votes from
no to aye.
A point having been raised that under
the rales there were twenty minutes for
debate, the speaker said:
There are rules and rules. There is a
rule for the previous question in the
Fifty-second, Fifty-third and Fifty
fourth congresses and also under general
parliamentary law. In the house of
representatives heretofore, the rule has
allowed twenty minutes for debate; but
that Is not the rale under which we are
now acting. Even if It were, there has
been debate enough, before the previous
question to out off that twenty minutes.
The question is now on agreeing to the
resolution.
The house divided and the speaker re
ported-ayes 157, nays 133.
So Mr. Henderson’s resolution was
agreed to.
The usual drawing of seats was pro
ceeded with, preference being given on
account of long service to Mr. Grow (rep.,
Penn.,): Mr. Holman (dem. Ind„), and Mr.
Harmer (rep. Penn.).
While the drawing for scats was In
progress, the committee appointed to
wait on the president, reported through
Mr. Payne (rep. of N. T.) that the presi
dent had "sent his kindly greetings to
congress and said that he would com
municate immediately In writing.”
tT-he making of the report was followed
instantly (3:15 p. m.) by the delivery of
the president's brief message, but its
reading was withheld until the seating of
members was completed.
The president’s message was then read
and referred, on motion of Mr. Dingley,
to the committee on ways and means.
To the ComgTess of the United States:
Regretting the necessity which lias te
quirod mo to call you together, I feel
(hat your assembling in extraordinary
session If Indispensable because of the
condition In which we find the revenues
of the government, it Is conceded that
Its current expenditures are greater
than Its receipts, and thai: such condition
has existed now for more than three
years. With unlimited means at our
command, we are presenting the remark
able spectacle of Increasing our public
debt by borrowing riloney to meet ordi
nary outlays Incident upon even an eco
nomical and prudent administration of
the government. An examination of the
subject discloses this fact In every de
tail, and leads Inevitably to the conclu
sion that ah'? revenue which allows it ia
unjustifiable and should be corrected.
We find- by the reports of the secre
tary of th? treasury that the revenues
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1892.
from all sources were $47-6,768,260, and
the expenditures for all purposes wire
$415,952,806, leaving an excess of iccelp'.s
over expenditures of $9,914,453. During
that fiscal year $40,570,467 was paid upon
public debt, which had been reduced sine?
■March 1, 1889, to $259,076,890. an annual
interest charge decreased $11,684,576. Re
ceipts of the government from all sources
during the fiscal year ending June 30,
1893, amounted to $461,716,561, and Its ex
penditures to $459,374,887, showing an ex
cess of receipts over expenditures of $2,
341.674.
Since that time receipts of no fiscal
year, and with but few exceptions, of
no month of any fiscal year have exceed
ed expenditures. Receipts of govern
ment from all sources during the fiscal
year ending June 30,1894, were $372,802,
498, and Us expenditures $442,605,758, leav
ing deficit, first since r sumption of spe
cib payments, of $69,803,260. Notwith
standing there was a decrease of $16,
769,128 in ordinary expenses of the gov
ernment:, as compared with previous fis
cal years, its income was still not suffi
cient to provide for Its dally necessities,
and gold reserve in the treasury for the
redemption of greenbacks was drawn
upon to meet them.
But this did not suffice, and the govern
ment resorted to loans to replenish the
reserve. In February, 1S94, $50,000,000 In
bonds were Issued, and In November fol
lowing a second issue of $50,000,000 was
deemed necessary. The sum of $117,171,
795 was realized by the sale of these
bonds, but the reserve was steadily de
creased until on February 8, 1895, the
third sate of $62,316,400 In bonds, for $65,
116,244 was announced to congress. The
receipts of the government for t'he fiscal
year ending June 30, 1896, were 390,317,
203. and expenditures $433,178,426, showing
a deficit of $42,805,223. A further loan of
$100,000,000 was negotiated by the govern
ment in February, 1896, the sale netting
$111,166,246, and swelling the aggregate
of bonds Issued Within three years to
$262,315,400.
A jcai truum^ j u Ilf iJU, 10»T).
the revenue of the government from all
sources amounted to $409,475,408, while the
expenditures were $434,678,654.48, or an
excess of expenditures over receipts of
$25,203,245.70.
In other words, the total receipts for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1896, were
insufficient by $137,811,729.46 to meet the
total expenditures. Nor has this condi
tion since improved. For the first half
of the present fiscal year the receipts of
the government, exclusive of postal rev
enues were $167,507,603, and Its expendi
tures, exclusive of the postal service $195,
410,000, or an excess of expenditures over
receipts of $37,902,396.
In January of this year the receipts,
exclusive of postal revenues, were $24,
316,994, and the expenditures, exclusive of
postal service $30,269,389, a deficit of $5,
952,396 for the month. In February of
this year the receipts, exclusive of pos
tal revenue were $24,400,997, and the ex
penditures, exclusive of the postal ser
vice, $28,796,056, a deficit of $4,395,059, or a
total deficit of $186,061,580 for the three
years and eight months ending March 1,
1897.
Not only are we without surplus in the
treasury, but with the Increase In pub
lic debt there has been a corresponding
increase in the annual Interest charge
from $22,893,883 In 1S92, the lowest of
any year since 1862, to $34,387,297 In 1S96,
or an Increase of $11,493,414. It may be
urged that even If the revenues of the
government had been sufficient to meet
all its ordinary expenses during the past
three years the gold reserve would still
have been Insufficient to meet the de
mands upon It and that the bonds would
necessarily have bP3n;l?sued for Its re
pletion.
Be this as It may, It Is clearly mani
fest, without denying or affirming the
correctness ot such a conclusion, that *
the debt would have been decreased In at
least the amount of the deficiency and
business confidence immeasurably
strengthened throughout the country.
Congress should promptly cortect the ex
isting conditions. Ample revenues must
bp supplied not only for the ordinary
expenses of government, but for the
prompt payment of liberal pensions and
the liquidation of the principal and in
terest of the public debt.
In raising revenues, duties should be so
levied upon foreign products as to pre
serve the home market, so far as possi
ble, to our own producers; to revive and
Increase manufacturers; to relieve and
encourage agriculture; to Increase c.ur
domestic and foreign commerce; to aid
and develop mining and buildins; and
to render to labor in every field of oc
cupation the liberal wages and adequate
rewards to which skill and Industry are
justly entitled.
The necessity of the passage of a tariff
law which shall provide ample revenue
need not be further urged. The Imper
ative demand of the hour is the prompt
enactment of such a measure and to this
object, I earnestly recommend that con
gress shall make every endeavor Be
fore other business is transacted let us
first provide sufficient revenue to faith
fully administer the government without
contracting further debt or the contin
ued disturbance of our finances
(Signed.) WILLIAM M'KIN LEY.
Executive Mansion.
Mr. Dlngley then introduced his tariff
hill, which was also referred to the
commlJ.ee on ways and means.
The speaker announced the appoint
ment of the committees on rules, on
ways and means and on mileage, as fol
lows:
Committee on Rules—The speaker,
Messrs. Henderson, of Iowa; Dalzeli, of
Pennsylvania, republican.--; Bailey, oT
Texas, and MoMIllin, of Tennessee, dc-m
oerqtts.
Committee on Ways and Means—
Messrs. Dingily, of Maine, chairman;
Pnyne, of New York; Dalzeli, of Pennsyl
vania; Hopkins, of Illinois; Grosvemor,
of Ohio; Dolliver. of Iowa; Pt-eele, of In
diana; Johnson, of North Dakota; Ev
ans. of Kentucky; Tawney, of Minnesota,
republican’s; Messis. Bailey, of Texas;
(MclMillln, of Tennessee; Wheeler, of Ala
bama; McLmirln, of South Carolina; It b
ert30-n, of Louisiana; Swanson, of Vir
ginia, democrats.
Committee on Mileage—Messrs. Wright,
of Massachusetts, chairman; Barham, of
California; Booze, of Maryland, republi
cans; Cooper, of Texas, and Lewis, of
Georgia, democrats.
Permission was given the committee
on ways and means tto sit during the se?
sdon of the house and to have all neces
sary printing d'arne, and then, at 4 p. m.,
the house adjourned until Thursday next.
ANDY BEARD KILLED.
The Negro Who Eloped With a White
Girl Meets Judge Lynch—The Girl
Asked to Have Him Preside Over
Her, Hint Her Father Takes
Her In Charge.
Kennedy, Ala,, March 15,—(Special.)—
News reached here this afternoon i.tat
the negro, Andy Beard, who tlopea with
the white girl, Lona Batons, who lived
about ten miles south of this place, in
Pickens county, was killed Saturday
evening in the public highway, near Ob
ney township, in Pickens county.
The couple were overtaken by a body of
Ktycnfy-five mounted men. and as soon
as they discovered that they were being
pursued the negro began to run. where
upon the pursuers opened lire, killing him
instantly.
The girl Lona cried out to the Flayers
of her paramour to treat her to the same
manner that they had him. but the body
rode away, leaving her near th? scene of
the killing.
Her father and brothers afterward took
her back home, and It is not known in
what manner her punishment was In
flicted.
BLOCTON.
Roach Stacey Given His Freedom—Lady
Thrown from a Vehicle and Danger
ously Injured.
Blocton, March 15.—CSpecial Corre
spondence.)—Roach Stacey, who was ar
rested for robbing Henry Parker at Cen
trovllle last week, had a preliminary trial
and proved that he was to Tuscaloosa
county the night of the robbery. He
came clear.
John Fritz, who was under bond for
hog stealing, was given up by his bonds
men yesterday, and now he is in the
Oentreville Jail.
Mrs. John Neighbors and little son were
out driving Saturday. The horse be
came frightened, ran away and seriously
hurt the mother; In fact, fractured her
skull, and she is now in a dangerous
condition. The Wttle boy was not bruised
a great deal.
Our Jeweler, Berger, was kicked by a
mule yesterday and received painful in
juries. His watch was badly broken.
That mule knew who and where to
kick, though some mules don’t care if
they kick a man all over.
Last Thursday Messrs. Robert Harvey,
Felix Blackburn and H. M. Beek, of Bir
mingham, made Blocton a special call.
They came to visit Enterprise lodge No.
48. Knights of Pythias. These gentle
men were highly entertained, and made
things very interesting. We hop? to wel
come them again.
About the only good thing our legisla
ture did for this county was to enact a
game law (and the governor did not veto
it. either), nnd, Saturday the season on
quail closed. Many of our srorts were
out doing their last shooting until Sep
tember 15. Open season for doves, Au
gust 1 to April 1. Turkeys. October 20
to May 1, nnd deer from October 20 to
February 14. The penalty is $50 for vio
lating this law.
(thief R. J. Latter, with his corps of en
gineers, left this morning for Centre
vllie. They will begin locating the
branch road from that point to this place.
West Blocton will soon have another
furniture store.
There are more tramps In Blocton than
ever before.
No. 1 mine shutting down has thrown
a great many men out of employment,
and many of whom had but little work
through the winter.
SUN’S COTTON,
New York. March 15.—Spot cotton here
was unchanged with sales of 537 hales for
spinning. Middling. 714c against 7 ll-10c
last year; New Orleans and gulg, 714c
against 7 ll-16e last year. The principal
factor in .the rise today was the dally river
bulletin issue! by tlie weather bureau. This
bulletin caused the advance here c.arly in
th day. Liverpool rallied after a waker
opening, receipts at the ports and the in
terior towns were generally smaller than
a week ago, the spot markets In this coun
try were tirm and shorts covered. Liver
pool and New Orleans were moderate trad
ers today, but the speculation was mainly
local. Before the close part of the im
provement was not on realizing sales, but
the last prices showed a net advance for the
day. The receipts at the ports for the
week are estimated at 70,000 against 71,903
last week.
views of thTinsurgents
Prefer Annexation jjp the Greek
Govern
KISSAME FLAMES
As a Result of the Bormen! of Insurgents
—The Mixed Ocd® *ion Distasteful
to Some of the Powers.
t
Athena, March 15.—A dispatch from
Canea says that a conference was held
there yesterday between the admirals
commanding the foreign warships and
the chiefs In command of the insurgents,
at which the latter declared that they
desired the uniion of the island with
Greece.
The dispatch also sayi that the fight
ing at Kissame was kept up all last
night and the tires which had b=en start
ed up In several parts of the town by the
bombardment of the place by the Insur
gents are ft:ill burning.
Nina hundred volunteers have arrived
here from Alexandria, and 1,200 have ar
rived at Larissa from Maced nia,
WILL ACCEPT VOLUNTEERS.
Athens. 'March 15.—A bill was Intro
duced in the bouie today by Col. Ma
taxis. ' minister of war, permitting the
enrollment of Gneek volunteers and a
foreign legation. Since ther was a prom
ise ol' war with Turkey, the war office
has been deluged with offers of military
service from nearly all the countries of
Europe. The Gr ek law. however, for
bade the enlistm nt of foreign*.?, and
the offers were therefore d. -Hr i. They
have oontinued to pour in. however, and
the g-ovcrrmerit has finally decided to
have the law so changed that: they may
lye accepted.
MIXED OCCUPATION
Of Crete Not Pavoralily Received By
Germany, Austria, Franc- and Italy.
London* March 15.—A dispatch from
Berlin says that the governments of
Germany and Austria have decli' . to
take part in the mixed occupation of
Crete by the powers.
Russia was the power which requested
the mixed occupation referred to. Her
proposal was that each of the powers
send 2,000 soldiers to Crete to restore or
der and .compel the Greek troops to
evacuate the island,
A dispatch from Vienna says that the
other powers made a proposal to Franco
and Italy for a mixed occupation of Crete,
each power cone I ibutiny an equal num
ber of men sufficient to bring the total
army of occupation up to 25.fKsi men, but
that proposal was reacted by those
governments upon he ground of the ex- /
pens-1 Involved. Germany and Austria,
the dispatch says, will take a merely nom
inal part in the occui«itlon of the Island.
"greensboroT
Mardl Gras Tourists Return Home—Wel
come Addition to the Social Circle
Personal.
Greensboro, March 15.—(Special Corre
spondence.)—MaJ. L. J. Lawson has Just
returned from a visit to Washington.
Mrs. C. C. Leed and her sister, Miss
Mamie Waller, are at home from attend
ing the Mardi Gras festivities in the Gulf
City. They were, while in Mobile, the
guests of Mr. and Mrs. Gregory Smith.
Mrs. Frederick Pride Jones has Just re
turned from a visit to her sister, Mrs.
Harry T. Inge, of Mobile.
MaJ. Wm. Smaw will soon move his
attractive family Ko the old Smaw home
stead in Greenborough, a home noted for
its handsome grounds and magnificent
hedgos of the rare and handsome camel
lia-Japonlca. MaJ. Smew's family will be
a welcome addition Jo the social circles
of Greensborough.
The Saturday Shakespeare club will
soon have the pleasure of adding to ins
always pleasing and improving features
a scries of lectures, on the English plays
now being read, by several of our most
talented gentlemen.
Miss Agnes St. Clair Young • ntertalned
the Poets' circle on Saturday.
OnlMonday Miss Agnes St. Clair Young
held a reorganizing meeting for the Young
Woman's Literary circle, known as the
Pleasure coterie. This club, in their w 11
selected and rapidly increasing library
of good and fresh literature, keep well
up in the matter of the best new books.
Mrs. W. P. Lee is visiting her daugh
ter, Mrs. W. S. Poe, of Birmingham.
Mrs. Julia Webb is with her daughter.
Mrs. E. L. McGeehee, of New Orleans.
Wilkes Hannah, who lives near Scott’s
Station, is very ill with pneumonia at
his mother's residence In Greensboro.
Beck & Geisler have made an assign
ment to P. A. Tutwiler, Esq., for the ben
efit of their creditors. Liabilities, $13,
000.
Corn planting, which is usually over
with in this section by this time, has
rot commenced on account of the-con
stant rains. The Warrior river Is rising,
and there is no doub: of n big overflow.
Planters are very much behind in their
preparations for a crop, and the prospect
for this year is gloomy.
Many of the peach and pear trees
are in’full bloom, and the blizzard now
prevailing in the southwest is expected
to put in irs appearance-and cut off the
fruit crop. On the 32th of March, last
year, a snow to the depth of two Inches
was on the ground in this section, and
no fruit was the. result. The faot is,
fruit raising In this country is a hum
bug.
~ THE TURF.
MEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 15.—Very warm
weather and a fast track marked today's
sport. The attendance was 3.000 and
speculation heavy, with favorites and
outsiders dividing the card between them.
First Race—Seven furlongs. Donna
Rita, 95 (Clay), 7 to 10, won: Grayling
second, Summer Sea third. Time. 1:28%.
Second Race—Half mile, Van Antwerp,
110 (R. Williams), 2 to 1, won; Sly Fox
second. Our Lizzie third. Time. 0:49%.
Third Race—One mile. Booze, 107 (Cay
wood), 4 to 5, won; Little Billy second',
Ben Waddell 'third. Time, 1:43.
Fourth Race—One mile. Faslg, 99 (A.
Barrett), 4 to 1. won: Paros second, Stock
holm third. Time, 1 .'43%.
Fifth Race—One mile. Txion. 109 (Over
ton), 10 to 1, won; Jack the Jew second,
Stark third. Time, 1:43.
Sixth Race.—8even furlongs. AlkyrlB,
95 (T. Powers). 13 to 5, won: Clym«»
second, I’at Morrissey third. Time, 129%... .• • ■- /- . “ - m w, . ■ -«* -
BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
MOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1897. NUMBER 50
FOUR HUM EIGHT!
Bills Introduced and Referred in
the Senate.
►_
SOME WERE BROUGHT OVER
From the Last Congress—Morgan Introduces a
New Nicaraguan Ccnil Ei I—Civil
Service Discussion.
Washington, March 16—The president’s
message, which, after Its being read yes
terday, was laid on the table, was on mo
tion of Mr. Morrell (rep., Vt.) referred to
the finance committee. The credentials
of Mr. John A. Henderson, appointed by
the governor of Florida to fill the vacan
cy In the senate caused.by the expiration
of the term of Mr. Call, were presented
and read; and Mr, Pasco asked that Mr.
Henderson be sworn into office. This
motion was antagonized by Senators Al
len (pop., Neb.), Chandler (rep., N. H.),
and Hoar (rep., Mass.), on the ground
that under the decision of the senate in
the Lee-Mantle and other casts, such ap
pointments by the governor were not in
compliance with the constitution.
An additional point of objection was
noted by Mr. Hoar in this: That the
appointment in this case was made to
continue ’’until the legislature should
elect” the governor, Mr, Hoar argued,
had no such power. He could only ap
point until the next meeting of the legis
lature. In fact the governor’s appoint
ment of Mr. Henderson might last, not
for si* years only, but forever if the leg
islature did not elect a senator.
All of these cases, said Mr. Hoar, were
on the same footing and there ought to
be a well considered, careful dealing with
them; first, by a report from the commit
tee on privileges and elections, and af
terwards by action of the senate. It
was very much more important for the
Benate to extract itself from the mud
into which it got by its action in the
Montana and Washington cases, than
that a senator should get his seat a week
or two earlier. He hoped that under
the circumstances the senator from Flor
ida would not insist upon having a long
debate on the matter now.
Air. Pasco stated points In which trie
present cases differed from the other
ones, and argued In favor of the Immedi
ate admission of Mr. Henderson.
Mr. Allen moved the reference of the
credentials to the committee on prlvllges
(tnd elections. This was agreed to after
further debate, over two hours having
been consulted in the discussion.
Many bills were introduced and re
ferred, jimpng thejn bijls by Mr. Allen
(pop., Neb.) dlrecTirig the foreclosure of
the government lien on the Union Pacific
railroad; to prevent over-capitalization
of companies doing an interstate>-carry
ing trade; to prevent professional lobby
ing; to preserve the purity of na
tional legislation; and to increase the
circulating medium. Altogether there
wore some forty blls Introduced by Mr.
Allen—most of them relics of the last
congress.
A bill to facilitate the construction,
working and maintenance of telegraphic
communication between the United
States, the Hawaiian islands, Japan and
Australia-Asia was introduced by Mr.
Chandler on behalf of Mr. Hale (rep.,
Me.). Also a bill to provide for the
twelfth and subsequent censuses. A bill
for a government telegraph was intro
duced by Mr. Kyle (pop., S. P.), and
one to amend the Immigration laws by
Mr. Lodge (rep.. Mas?.). A bill for the
relief of William J. Bryan, when its title
was read, caused a general laugh. A
bill to increase all pension allowances
was introduced by Mr. Thurston (rep.,
Neb.).
’A new Nicaraguan cana! bill was liv.ro
dueed by 'Mr. Morgan, democrat, of Ala
bama; also, a bill to create a board of
(trustees of the Union Pacific and Central
Pacific Railroad companies, and to fund
their bonded debts. Also, a joint reso
lution declaring the Bulwer-Ckiyt.on
treaty abrogated.
Bankruptcy bills were introduced by
Senators Hoar, republican, of Massa
chusetts, ar.d Nelson, republican, of'Min
nesota.
'Altogether, there were 480 introduced
and referred, most of them oeming over
from the last congress.
A bill granting a pension of $50 a
month to the widow of Brig.-Gen. John
B. Stevenson wus Introduced by 'Mr. Vest,
democrat, of Missouri, and passed. Dur
ing its consideration Mr. Allison, of Iowa,
asked Mr. Vest, significantly, whether
he thought the imssage of the bill today
would expedite its becoming law.
“I think so,” Mr. Ve^t replied. “I
'think I can get action on It In the house.”
Mr. Allison's comment was; ”1 have
great admiration for the senator's con
fidence.”
A resolution was offered by Mr. Frye,
republican, of Maine, calling for copies
of all orders, circulars, or instructions,
and all correspondence with engineer
officers in charge of public works rela
tive to the application of civil service
rul .s to the operation of works in charg i
of the engineer department. He re
marked in an audible whisper that ha
wanted to get rid of civil service, wlilch
was "an awful outrage.”
"Is that a step,” Mr. Cockrell, demo
crat. of Missouri, asked, “ill the direction
of abolishing the civil service law?”
”1 regard it,” Mr. Frye replied, “as a
step in frvor of abolishing civil service
rules so far as they relate to the em
ployment of laborers and surveyors in the
construction or puoiic works.
"Their employment by contractors or
by the army engineers?" Mr. Hawley,
republican, of Connecticut, inquired.
"By ’the engineers.” 'Mr. Frye replied.
“It is simply this: The civil service rules
have been extended by the president
over the employment of all manner of
servants through the engineer depart
ment of the government, so that if on
officer away up the Columbia river wants
to hire a laborer for a piece of work, the
laborer must have a certificate from the
civil service commission. And so In the
case of a surveyor who may be wanted
two or ihreo days. It Is interfering with
all the improvements of rivers and har
bors, and Is absolutely absurd.”
The resolution was agreed to.
Mr. Vest gave notice of an amendment
to the rules, providing that no report shall
bp received by the sena'te from any com
mittee unless the report has been con
sidered by the committee at a session
attended by n quorum of Its members.
After a short executive session, at
which todoy's noipinations v/ere referred,
the senate, at 3:30 o'clock, adjourned
until Thursday next.
OVER A MILLION LOSS.
St. Louis, Mo., March 16.—Last night's
fire in the Ely WaJker Dry Goods com
pany building was gotten under control
early this morning. All that remains of
the massive seven -story structure snd
the enormous stock of dry goods is a
mass of smouldering ruins. The loss to
the Ely Walker company is estimated at
ISOO.OOO, and the building, which was
ownud'iby the Liggett & Meyer Tobacco
company, was damaged to the extent of
$300,000. The adjoining business houses
of the Verstee Grant Shoe company and
the Gauss Shelton Hat company were
damaged to the extent of $50,000 by fire
and water. All the property was fully
covered by insurance.
AN EVASIVE ANSWER.
By Salisbury as to England's Attitude
In Regard to Cretan Affairs.
London, March 16.—Answering a ques
tion by the Earle of Kimberly, laJ.e min
ister of foreign affairs, in the house of
lords today, Ixrrd Salisbury said that in
structions had been sent to the admir
als commanding the warships in Cretan
waters to pul. the’ blockade of the porta
of the island of Crete into operation at
once.
Lord Kimberly asked that the govern
ment make a further and more explicit
statement In regard to the Cretan situ
ation, but Lord Salisbury referred him
to tiho admirable speeches delivered by
Foreign Minister Hanotaux and Premier
Meline In the French chamber of dep
uties yesterday, In the sentiment ex
pressed in which he (Lord Salisbury) said
he heartily concurntd.
Lord Kimberly—Bui; I should prefer
•to have a statement of Great Britain's
policy by Great Britain's ministers.
Lord Salisbury—The policy of the pow
ers was explained 'in the speeches of M.
Hanotaux and Meline. If I have not used
their brilliant language it is my misfor
tune and my fault.
In the lobbies of the house the remarks
of Lord Salisbury ora regarded as in
dicative of an aim on the part of the
premier to secure a closer entente with
France, and also as Indicating that Eng
land and Fiance are closer united with
one atioUier in an understanding in re
gard to Crete than they an? with the
other powers.
SECRECY OBSERVED.
London, March 16.—In the house of
commons this evening Mr. A. J. Balfour,
first lord of the treasury, made the fol
lowing announcement on behalf of the
government: We hove today addressed
a communication to the powem In re
gard to Greece, but it is impo sible, as it
wmuld be improper, and against public
interest, either to state the r.erms of
the communication or to encourage de
bate on the subject.
BRITISH TROOPS TO MOVE.
•London, March 16.—A dispatch from
Manala says 600 British troops were or
dered ito Crete from that station today.
GREEK VESSELS LEAVE CRETAN
WATERS.
Catic-a, (March 16.—As a result of the
operation of the blockade of Cretan ports
by the combined fleets of the powers,
the Greek squadron, with the exception
of twu> small warships, left Cretan waters
today. The two vessels that remain are
preparing to take their departure.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 16.—Warm weath
er, a fast track and 3,500 people marked
today’s races here. The sport was lively,
favorites and outsiders dividing tho card.
In the fourth race, however. It looked
to most people as if a claim of foul made
by the jockey of Marquise on Robert
Bonner should have been allowed, as the
jockey of the latter in the last sixteenth
repeatedly hit Marquise on the head with
his whip.
First Race—Seven furlongs. Senator
Morrill, 105 (Caywood) 6 to 2. won; Ten
cchtitlan second, Etaire third. Time,
1:23%.
Second Race—One mile. Parmesan, 113
(Seherrer). 4 to 1, won; Farmer Leigh
second. Elkin third. Time. 1:44.
Third Race—Hurdle, a mile and a fur
long. Folly, 137 (C. Johnson), 5 to 2, won',
Proverb second, Trakeman third. Time,
2:03%.
Fourth Race—One mile. Robert Bonner,
95 (T. Burn?), 3 to 1, won; Marquise sec
ond. Albert S. third. Time, 1:42.
Fifth Race—Sis furlongs. Halloween,
104 fScherrer), 7 to 5, won; Ruth second,
iBsie O. third. Time, 1:15.
Sixth Race—One mile. Imp. Percy, 113
(A. Clayton), 2 to i, won; Beau Ideal sec
ond, Chicot third. Time, 1:42%.
DEATHS RECORD.
B. S. EVANS.
Choccoloqco, Maroh 16.—(Special Corre
spondence.)—Dr. B. S. Evans, of White
Plains, died last night. He has been
practicing at White Plains for nearly
fifty years, and one of the oldest doctors
In the county. He will be buried tomor
row at the family burying grounds 0t
White Plains.
WILLlA.M E. HARDING.
New York, March 16.—W’illlam E.
Harding, sporting editor for the Daily
News, died yesterday of pneumonia. He
was 55 years old, and was born in Can
ada. In 186S he was made sporting edi
tor of the Daily News, and though he
was also connected with the police Ga
zette In that capacity for several years,
his connection ‘with the Daily News
continued until his death.
GREECE NOT NOTIFIED
Officially of the Blockading of Crete by
the Powers.
London, March 16.—The Standard will
tomorrow publish a dispatch from Ath
ens saying that up to this evening the
government had received no official in
formation that the fleets of the powers
were blockading Crete.
A dispatch from Vienna to ’the same
paper says that the representatives of the
poweis in Constantinople have been en
trusted with the task of forming a
scheme of autonomy for Cre'te. Their
work will be partly facilitated by consul
tation with the porte.
MANY RECRUITS
To the Mormon Ranks Acquired in Two
Maryland Counties.
Cumberland, Md., March 16.—As the re
sult of proselyting of Mormon elders In
the lower end of Allegheny county, Md.,
and contiguous sections of Pulton and
Bedford counties in Pennsylvania, mi
gration to Utah has commenced. To
day a party of eight who have recently
embraced Mormonism, left for Utah to
reside. Others will follow as soon as
they can sell thoir farms.
The Mormon elders have spread their
literature and conducted house to house
prosciytjng until her converts have
grown into the hundreds, other churches
suffering seriously.
FILED AN ASSIGNMENT.
Richmond, Va., March 16.—Mr. George
T. King, owner and proprietor of the
Richmond City mills, filed a deed of as
signment in the clerk’s office of the chan
cery court thls mornlng to R. M. Pilcher,
trustee. The liabilities are placed at $25,
000, and it is thought that the assets will
cover the obligations.
DEATH AND_DESTRUCTION
In the Valley of the Lower Mis
sissippi.
A VAST' INLAND SEA
Is the Description of What Was Once Fertile
Fields and Happy Hbmes—Great
Distress Prevails.
Memphis, Term., March 16.—The valley
■cf the Lower Mississippi is a vast Inland
sea. Death, desolation and distress Is
spreading from as far north as Bind'3
Point, Mo., to the country below Helena,
Ark. The heavy rainfall of the past
fortnight In the Ohio valley and the con
sequent floods are the Immediate causes
of the frightful swelling In the Missis
sippi in the vicinity of Cairo and south
of there.
The break in tihe levee near Nodona,
Ark., Saturday, 'has wrought havoc in
Mississippi county, which is virtually at
the mercy of the raging torrents. Many
persons ar 'thought to have perished in
this vicinity. Twenty-five negroes are
reported drowned in Bushy bayou. For
miles and miles west of Memphis every
home has been abandoned.
One planter, J. L. Butler, tells a ter
rible story of the destruction of farm
houses, property and cattle, but he re
ports only one drowning. Butler, how
ever, fears that the loss of life will be
great.
The break In the levee Is widening,
and. no one on earth can stop the crev
asse. Six hundred people have been
brought to Memphis from Crittenden
county, most of them from Marion, Ark.
Many were in a state of starvation when
they arrived. The steamer Minnehaha
has returned from a trip to Island Forty,
five miles north of Mound City, wher?
several families were found. The women
were in waiter up to their waists, and two,
of them were holding babies in 'their
arms. '
-n-.
WATER STILL. RISING
And Alarming Conditions Reported From
River Towns.
Caruthersville, Mo., March 16.—The wa
ter is rising here at the rate of nearly an
inch per hour. Work on the levee is be
ing kept up night and day.
At Osceola, Ark., the levee broke yes
terday and the floods are doing great
damage in that section. At Tyler, thir
teen miles below here, ten families were
driven from their homes and are camped
on a saw dust pile.
At Cottonwood, nine miles below, the
water is nearly a foot deep in business
places and dwellings.
At Gayere, six miles above h?re: the wa
ter is all over the town and from three
to twelve inches deep in the houses.
Prisoners had to be removed from the
jail to the courthouse to escape the wa
ter.
NEARLY FIFTY FEET.
Cairo, 111., March 16.—The gauge this
morning shows within two inches of
fifty feet. The levees are intact and
can stand several feet rise. At Bird’s
Point, Mo., the Cotton Belt and Iron
Mountain railroads are under water. If
the floods continue for twenty-four hours
trains on these roads will be abandoned.
ATTORNEY GENERAL M’KENNA
DIscusse the Filibuster Question in the
Cabinet—No Decision Rendered.
Washington, March 16.—The filibuster
ing operations between this country and
Cuba occupied the attention of the cab
inet today.
Attorney General McKenna gave his
views on the subject of permitting alleged
filibustering steamers to clear for Cuban
ports with cargoes of arms and munitions
of war. A general discussion followed
his remarks. The attorney general has
decided rot to render an opinion in the
case of the steamer Dauntless until he
can obtain additional facts relating to the
application of her owners to clear from
Jacksonville with arms and ammunition.
Under ordinary commercial conditions
the application would be granted without
question, but the tkct that the Dauntless
or any other vessel would be obliged to
clear for some Cuban port held by the
Spanish puts a new phase on the matter.
The cargo could not be landed there and
the vessel would be seized. This would
make it necessary for a vessel to attempt
to land the cargo at some point along the
coast and in order to deliver the arms
and ammunition to the insurgents an
armed force would be necessary. The
knowledge of this raises the question
whether the men necessary to carry out
the plans made for a filibustering vessel
would not constitute an armed expedi
tion, a clear violation of law. The at
torney general will have to decide wheth
er the force likely to be taken on the
Dauntless is an armed expedition within
the meaning of the law.
Permission was given the steamer Com
modore to clear for a Cuban port with
arms and munitions of war, but the
vessel was wrecked before reaching the
Cuban coast.
(THE TRAP SHOOT
Proved a Failure for Lack of Entries—
Elliott Defeats Bigelow.
Carson,* Nev., March 16.—The trap
shooting tournament Is a fizzle, the en
tries having failed to fill. Champion J.
A. R. Elliott and A. P. Bigelow, of Og
den, were the only craokx on hand this
morning. Anderson and Becker, of
Utah, and Chick, of California, having
been delayed by a late train until after
the entries had closed.
Elliott and Bigelow shot a sweepstake
of fifty birds, which was won by the
former, the score being. 47 to 43.
The other events were declared off by
Dan Stuart, whose time Is fully occupied
by the prize fight.
THE DEATH 'WARRANTS
Read to Jackson and..Walling—Jackson
Ignores a Mother’s Plea for Her Son.
'Alexandria, Ky., March 16.—Sheriff
Plummer came here late this afternoon
with the death warrants, which he read
to Jackson and Walling. Neither exhib
ited any emotion during the protracted
reading of the formal document.
'Mrs. Walling pleaded today wl'th tears
and choking sobs to Jackson to tell what
he had promised, ‘and save her son.
Jackson remained unmoved, and three
times repeated to her j$at he had noth
ing to telL I
A LITTLE WHILE LONGER
And the Championship Contest
Will Be Over.
:
SOME MONEY TURNED LOOSE
With Odds on Corbett—Both Men in Fine Con
dition—A Short, Sharp Fight Pre
dicted-Name and Take.
Carson, Nev., March 16.—The last
twelve hours of daylight remaining be
fore the greatest struggle in the history
of pugilism begins, were ushered in with
lowering skies and a threatening atmos
phere. Fortunately, however, the sun
came to the front and its glorious rays
dispelled all gloom. The early outlook
had the effect of making both Corbett and
Fitzsimmons do a little more work than
they had intended to on the day before
the battle. Fearing to take any chances
under existing atmospherical conditions,
both men exercised with a view to keep
ing their wind up in case of a possible
postponement. Nothing short of a rain
or snow storm will bring about such a
postponement, however, and all indica
tions' tend to show that fair weather
will be vouchsafed tomorrow.
ine tong-looked-for specials from east
ar,J west arrived today and discharged
additions to the crowds which already
severely tax the resources of the town.
The attendance at the ring will not be as
large as was expected.
Between 4,000 and 5.000 people will, per
haps be a careful estimate of the num
btr who will see the meeting of the two
men which took nearly two years and the
expenditure of thousands of dollars to
bring about.
Visitors kept arriving and departing
from Shaw’s Springs and Cook's ranch
all day and the roads between Carson
and the training quarters presented a
busy scene with its constant stream of
vehicles of all kinds.
P. J. Corbett, Jim’s father, arrived by
one of the western specials shprtly after
noon. William A. Brady met him and
drove him out to the springs where they
found Jim entertaining his friends.
For every one the big fellow had a pleas
ant greeting and a cheerful, confident
word. In fact Corbett never seemed in
better spirits since he began training
than he did on this, the evening of the
contest.
Fitzs-’immons’ visitors had to wait some
time before Bob put in an appearance
at the ranch, and he was malting hay
while the sun shone andi'.aUing advantage
of the bright spell to do some jogging
along the road. When he returned and
had a rub-down he was In evidence, and
his conversation showed just as much
faith in his winning star as hfll rival dis
played.
This oveiwhelming confidence on, both
Sides is a puzzle to all the sports. It 1s
undoubtedly genuine In '’.he two men, and
tend.3 to still shake the ideas of any one
who is inclined to wave about picking
the winner.
If the victory had to be decided by the
amount of confidence entertained the ref
eree would have a harder I’.ask than that
which will be undertaken by Referee
Siler tomorrow, and the fight will be pro
longed much longer than Is looked for
under Queensberry rules. The prevail
ing opinion seems to be that the fight
will be limited to fifteen rounds.
Judging by the betting, this number
Is the favorite, while under ten rounds
comes In as a second choice. No one Is
inclined to think tha the battje will be a
long one. The interpretation of the rules
which allows hi ting in clinches and
breakaways appears to account in a
groat measure for the popular idea of
a short fight.
Dan Stuart, It Is evident, assumes with
the majority, since he has put on the two
smaller fights to fill the event.
Betting was about the same all day.
There Is plenty of Corbett money In sight,
but Fitzsimmons cash Is not so plentiful.
Paris mutuals with Corbett, Green and
Hawkins as the pick of the combination,
were very slow and there were scarcely
any buyers for Fitzsimmons, Smith and
Flaherty.
It was not quite the day of rest at the
camps that was anticipated, although
both men laid up considerably and dis
pensed with the sparring end of the pro
gramme entirely. " Corbett played three
games of hand ball and then t6ok a turn
at the punching bag In the morning.
Light foot work In the hand ball court
followed and then Jim was rubbed down.
After he was dressed he received callers
and stood chatting outside the court for
nearly half an hour. Corbett was in a
particularly cheerful humor and seemed
much pleased at the number of visitors.
Among those who drove out to the
springs were Ida Fuller, whose sister
Loie, is an old friend of the Californians.
Billy Woods and Jeffries were about
as contented looking a pair as could be
found in the vicinity today, since they
had a rest from Jim’s gentle manipula
tions. McVey also wore a smile, which
was absent during the days when his
head was battered against the wooden
walls of the gymnasium. Hater In the
afternoon Jim went for a short walk
and came home with a series of sprints.
At Cook’s ranch Htokey and Stenzler
had time to compare notes on pas: Ini
Juries, as they were not scheduled to put
on gloves. Roeber, however, had to push
and shove for a few minutes while the
champion tired ou't his wind. Bob then
took a turn at the fchg and1 sprinted
arouna me yarn a. iew umts, a mue
road work ended the proceedings.
Roth pugilists turned in early to get a
good, long redt before the eventful hour.
According to tonight's arrangements,
Corbett will perhaps take a short walk
in the morning, and then drive to the
nrena. Of course, the weather will have
a great deal to do with the plans of both
men.
Prof. Watson, of the Olympic chib of
Pan Francisco, who is credited with
baaing brought out Corbett's boxing
abilities, was probably the most welcome
visitor at the Californian’s quarters to
ed y.
‘‘Come in and take a flash a' me. Wal
ter,” said Jim, after a handshake. "Your
opinion ought to settle the question of
my condition.”
Watson followed the champion's fa'ther,
P. J. Corbett, into Jim's cottage, where
an examination took place. Jim stripped
to the waist, and Watson thumped him
and kneaded every muscle on his trunk.
Mr. Corbett. Sr., adjusted his spectacles
and watched the process.
“You’re down pretty fine, Jim; pretty
fine,” said Watson. “Not too fine, un
derstand me; Just about right. I should
think. I never saw your muscles so
hard. They show up through the skin
more 'than ever before. Perhaps that Is
why you nppean to be dTawn so much.
Your neck is bigger than it v.«ed to be, 1
think. Have you been saving your
right? Tour left seems to be "bigger titan
I ever saw it. If ybu were a stranger I
should say you intended' to flghit the bat
tle with one hand. Tour right shoulder
muscles strike me as having just ab:u<t
tho proper development. Perhaps I
should not be too critical, but I know you
take some si oc-k In what I'm saying.
You are harder than you were In former
years, and carry less beef on you, I
should say that you are in absolutely per
fect condition for a man of your age and
development. The more I look at you
the ta tter I like your appearance. If. as
you claim, your bellows are all right, the
championship will stay in San Fran
cisco.”
Jim's father had not much to say.
"Jim seems to have muscles sticking
out all over him,” was the old man’s
comment. “His face is net vsry thin.
His shoulders look very big to me. Come
to think of it, I never saw them look so
large. Now, so far as his color goes, 1
want to tell you right n >w that he never
looked better. The lines about his eyes
are perfectly natural. J had them when
I was his age.
“Jim and Joe take after me, you
know, and I am satisfied w-ith the lads’
appearance, and if he don't win, will,
he should r,ct have any excuse to offer
the folks at home,”
Jack McAullffe, the ex-light-weight
champion, attracted some attention on
Carson's streets this afternoon. ”1 have
not seen either of the big fellows
stripped,” said Jack to a crowd in front
of Stuart's office. “You can't tell a
great deal by a man’s face and not much
more by seeing him stripped, but accord
ing to my notion, both Jim and Bob are
finer than silk. Why should not they
be? 1 think the- pace will be so hot that
the fight will not last more than six
rounds. Judging by their talk" to me,
they ain't going to do much dancing
about and drawing out, as it were. The
fight Is for blood, and It will be all over
by 11 o’clock tomorrow If the sun shines.”
Wyatt Earp, who refereed the Sharkey
Fitzsimmons contest, sized up the heavy
wenghts this morning. Earp Is a secre
tive man naturally and he had nothing
much to say when he came back from
Shaw’s Springs. ”1 thought 'Corbett
might not be as good as he was report
ed,” he raid. “He looks mighty deter
mined though, and I don’t believe he is
afraid of an anaconda. Fitzsimmons
is as heavy as when he fought Sharkey.
Maybe he Is worrying, tTihe man with
'the most nerve is going to win this fight.
Both of them are well fixed for that ar
gument today.”
ir expert opinion counts tor anytnir.g,
the battle will be a short one.
A few guesses as to the number of
rounds follow:
W. A. Brady—Not less than four and
not more I’-in eight rounds.
Martin J/.an—Fitzsimmons will knock
Corbett’s head off before the fifth round
is over.
Billy Delaney—I look for a fast fight;
Corbett will get Fitzsimmons’ measure in
two or three rounds. There is too much
at stake for either man to run any risk
by rushing. Ten rounds ought to de
cide matters.
Ernest Roeber—If the morning is cold
they will fight fast; Fitzsimmons will
get in his work about the fifth round. I
think Corbett will get rattled and run
into a knock-out blow about that time.
Charley White—It will be the fastest
fight between heavy-weights in the his
tory of pugilism. Corbett will fool them
on his punching power. Six or eight
rounds will see the last of Fitzsimmons.
Dan Hickey—The man who gets in his
punch will likely win. Fitzsimmons will
be cooler than Corbett and if Jim forces
matters Bob will get to his jaw before
seven rounds are over.
Billy Woods—Fitzsimmons will never
put a glove on Corbett. If he can stand
up before Jim for three rounds ne is a
better man than he was when I sparred
with him. .
Jack Stenzler—Corbett will lose his
head when he finds that Bob can hit him
and Bob will .knock him out inside of four
rounds sure.
William Muldcon—The two men are In
such perfect condition that I hardly
think the fight will last more than thirty
minutes. , _ ..
Jack McAuliffo—It is a grudge fight
and no time will be wasted; the man who
keeps his head will win in short order.
Tom Sharkey—The klnetoscope people
won’t need much tape for this fight. The
men will go at each other like tigers and
it will be all over in less than twenty
minutes.
Billy Madden—We will never live to see
such a fast fight between two men. They
have old scores to settle and it won’t
take them long to do It.
A1 Smith—I don't think it will be a very
long fight. Corbett usually trims his
man In short order, understand me, and
Fitzsimmons don’t lose much time either.
We won’t have to wait long for the finish.
Jimmv Wakeley—Six rounds will settle
it if I am a judge. These fellows have
plenty of speed and there won't be any
fooling on either side.
Notwithstanding these predictions, the
talent are buying pools on rounds ten to
____
"Where are all tnese people going
sl-ep?” asked a tall Englishman who had
traveled all the way from I.oniion to
see the fight. His question raised a point
which had not been sufficiently consid
ered before. Every lodging house and
private residence Is crowded and still
the visitors come.
Cots are to be hadi, but before morning
the supply will be exhausted. Store
keepers are clearing spaces In their prem
ises to make room for shake-downs, anil
even the Salvation Army headquarters
were cleared out.
The old agricultural pavilion has been
turned into a restaurant, and hand-outs
are being served from shanties In China
town. The railway sidings are filling up
with sleepers, and every day couches
that can be spared will be opened to those
who cannot obtain beds elsewhere.
The trackmen are rapidly becoming
rich. This afternoon ex-Senator John J.
Ingalls yielded *2 In exchange for a car
riage tide of 200 hundred yards. He was
rescued from the grasp of the hack
driver by kind friends, who steered him
to a place of safety.
At the coliseum everything 1s ready.
The guidons are all in place and press
seats have been squared off and filled
with chairs. The kinet03Cope machine is
in readiness, and three m'n are guard
ing It against possible intruders. A
Pinkerton man stands at every entrance,
and nobody enters without a good ex
cuse.
Stuart’s office has been jammed with
ticket buyers all day. The high-priced
seats are most In demand, but there are
purchasers for all grades. Three stal
wart detectives are on guard within the
office, and a fourth Is stationed outside
the door.
Secretary Whoelock claims that more
than 4,000 tickets have been sold, bu't
there is no way of veryfying his figures.
Stuart says he can see daylight, and
that any number over 3.000 will let him
out a winner.
ODDS ON THE FIGHT.
Betting in Now York Opened Up Lively
Y'esterday—Corbett the Favorite.
Thousands Wagered.
New York, March 18.—As the time for
the big prize fight draws near, betting
on the result in this city ha9 become more
lively. Several thousand dollars have
already been placed in bets on the New
York stock exchange, and a considerable
amount of money has al3o been wagered
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
GETTIfi' B01T0 BUSINESS
Joint Meeting of Officers and
Committeemen
£ li_
OF THE^AflNIVAL SOCIETY
o *
Which Ret^td in an Assurance of a Great
Celt1 jr lorvthe Coming Year—Ladies
*
* sked to Lend their Aid.
/ tut -
I JC
Thi Bq-mingham Carnival society, en
couraged by recent acquisitions to its
ranks and by promises of assistance from
enterprising citizens, has begun an active
and agg.essive campaign for succeeding
years, with,. "To Be," as insignia upon
the banner.
Yes erday afternoon in the Commercial
club rooms there was held a Join meet
ing of the presidents, vice-presidentB,
committee on designs and reception com
mittee, with thh'ly-four members pres
ent. The meeting was called for the pur
pose of laying plans for the coming year's
carnival, and the results were decidedly
gratifying. The utmost harmony pre
vailed, and discussions ail tended in one
direction—the good of 'the society, the
success of Its undertakings and beneficial
results for Birmingham. Preliminary
steps for the coming year's carnivaB
were 'taken, and the plans mapped oujf
promise, if carried out. which they u.>
quest! ,nabiy will be; will Insure the grvau
est celebration in the history of the state*.
Reports of a mont encouraging na
ture were received, namely: Barge in
crease in membership, three applications
for the honor of being Rex Vulcan III.
and excellent success in dt-poslng of tick
ets to the coming entertainment to the
carnival fund. All three reports were
received with marked approval.
The applications tor Rex Vulcan III
were referred co the committee on de
signs, to be acted upon at the proper
time, same having been accompanied
with certified checks for handsome sums
of money.
LADIES CALLED UPON.
It was unanimously decided to call
upon the public-spirited ladies of the city
to assist the society in making a sueces3
of the entertainment to be given Mon
day, April 19, the proceeds of which will
be used in liquidating the debt of the last
carnival.
All ladies willing to assist in this, laud
able enterprise are requested to meet the
committee on entertainment in the Com
mercial club parlor tomorrow morning at
10 o’clock. The meeting will be for the
purpose of formulating a programme to
be added to that already prepared, there
by Insuring an entertainment unexcelled
in the history of the city. All ladles de
sirous of aiding in the good work are
urgently reques.ed to be present.
IMPORTANT TO OOMiMITTEEMEN.
For the purpose of securing better at
tendance at the meetings of commi’.tees,
and thereby securing more thorough and
uuilco avtivir vt bouiv tv v* %*•*» •»--*». *.
any member of a committee absenting
himself for three successive meetings
shall be dropped from said committee
and another member of the society to be
named as his successor.
President Lesser read his annual re
port, giving a detailed account of all ex
penses Incurred In the last carnival. The
report was reetdved and ordered filed.
The entcrtalnment committee was In
structed to announce the programme for
the post-Lenten en) erta in men t as soon as
possible after the meeting with the
ladies.
aWbadman
Is What Will Hunter, the Negro Hurglar
and 'Would-Be Murderer Proves to
Be—Officer Perdue's Condition.
William Hunter, the negro burglar shot
by Officer William Perdue last Sunday
afternoon and who seriously wounded the
officer, turns out to be a more dangerous
man than at first supposed. It will be
remembered that during the shooting on
Sunday little Myrtise Bowling, a 4-year
old white girl, was accidentally killed In
the alleyway by a stray bullet.
Yesterday morning Chief McDonald re
ceived a letter from E. B. Moseley, chief
of police In Memphis, together with a
photograph of the negro. The letter
stated that Hunter was a dangerous
burglar and had been sent up from that
city Sept. 19, last, for fifteen years and es
caped Feb. 18, 1S97. His crime was the
burglarizing of the house of a Mr. Ful
cher, who, being awakened at the time,
shot at. the burglar. Hunter did not
•deny his guilt when placed on trial.
On the reverse side of the photograph
was the following description:
Will Hunter, taken Sept. 12. 1896. Res
idence, Memphis, Tenn. Legitimate oc
cupation, laborer Criminal occupation,
burglar. Age. 31 years. Height 5 feet
9% inches. Weight. 175 pounds. He
was of medium build with brown skin
and black eyes and hair. He lias a sear
at the base of the right thumb and an
other one on the right forefinger. He has
a high forehead. .
The picture was an excellent likeness
of Hunter and he admitted that he was
the man in question.
Hunter Buffers n great deal from his
wound, but finds more relief In a sitting
posture than in lying down. He im
proved in his condition Monday and yes
terday, but later In the evening and last
night lie complained a great deal. It
is not thought that he can possibly live
very much longer.
Officer Perdue was reported as much
Improved late yesterday afternoon, but
he suffers a great deal from the effects
of the negro's shot. The bullet lias not
been removed from the neck, where It
lodged and. until this Is done, his exact
condition will remain in doubt. He has
the sympathy not only of all of his fel
low officers, but of the citizens In gen
eral who hope for his speedy recovery.
TURNED THE TABLES.
Jacksonville. Fla., March 16.—Owing to
a recent decision in the United States su
preme court, to the effect that express
companies In 'towns in Florida having
from 60 to 100 Inhabitants must pay 9
state tax of $10 and a county tax of *5,
the Southern Express company will close
about forty offices In this state, as the
revenues of said offices do not warrant
the payment of such a tax. It is under
stood the next legislature will be asked to
modify the law.
AFTF.H FIVE MONTHS.
New' York. March 16.—The sugar re
finery on South Second street. Williams
burg, belonging to the American Sugar
Refining company, after, a sliut-down ol
over five months, opened last night wi(i
a force Vt nearly 600 men. “BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1897. NUMBER 51
And Is Now Champion of the
World.
CORBETT IS DETHRONED
In the Fourteenth Round the Belt Found a
New Owner.
HARD FOUGHT AND HONESTLY WON
Was the Title To Which Ex-Champion John L.
Sullivan Again Aspires—Corbett Was
Clever, But Over-Confident.
“Gentleman Jim” Got in the Greatest Kum.
ber of Blows on “Lanky Bob,” But the
Latter Had Strength to Spare Whon
Mont Needed-The Other Besults.
Carson, Nev., March 17.—After two
years of doubt and vexatious postpone
ments the heavy-weight championship
of the world was decided beyond cavil,
when Robert Fitzsimmons sent Janies
J. Corbett helpless to his knees with a left
hand blow under the heart after one
minute and forty-five seconds in the
fourteenth round of their battle in the
arena this afternoon.
The great contest was won in the
simplest manner and the knock-out was
the result of one unwary move on the
part of Corbett. After the first minute
of the fourteenth round had been spent
in a few harmless clinches and coun
ters, Fitzsimmons made a fake lead with
his right for the jaw. It was a simple
ruse, but it caught the Californian nap
ping. Instead of keeping his body In
clined forward and throwing back his
head just a trifle to allow the blow, which
was of the very lightest kind to slip by,
Corbett contemptuously bent his head
and chest backward and thus protruded
his abdomen, Fitzsimmons' small eyes
Hashed, and like lightning he saw and
availed himself of his advantage. Draw
ing back his left he brought it up with
terrible force, the forearm rigid and at
right angles to the upper arm. With
the full power of his wonderful driving
muscles brought into play, the Australian
fairly ripped the blow up the pit of Cor
bett’s stomach at a point just under the
heart. Corbett was lifted clean off his feet,
and as he pitched forward Fitzsimmons
shot his right up and around, catching
Jim on the jaw and accelerating his
downward fall.
Corbett sank on his left knee, end with
his outstretched right grasped the ropes
for support. His left arm worked con
vulsively up and down, while his face
was twitching with an expression of the
greatest agony. Referee Siler threw up
his hands on the call of ten and left the
ring. There were some cries of foul when
the referee declared Corbett out, but they
were unheeded by anybody, as the bat
tle was won fairly and squarely. The
defeat nearly drove Corbett wild. When
he was able to feel his feet, after hds
seeoads bad helped him to his corner, he
broke away from them and rushed at
Fitzsimmons, who had not left the ring.
A sc^ne of dreadful confusion ensued.
The ring was crowded with an excited
moh, but Corbett burst through them
and struck at Fitzsimmons.
The Australian kept his arms by his
sides, and with a great deal of gener
osity made allowance for Corbett’s half
demented condition. Bob merply ducked
under the blow, and when Corbett clinch
ed with him and struck him a feeble blow
on the ear, the champion only smiled.
It was with great difficulty that Billy
Brady and the seconds succeeded in
quieting Corbett down and getting him
beck to the dressing room.
a tic ugiiv waa cicau uuu apvcujr. it
demonstrated two facts—'that Corbett Is
the cleverest boxer of his weight In the
world, and that Fitzsimmons Is able to
hit him. The California boy smotheTed
the Cornishman with left Jabs in the face
and right and left body blows. Fitzsim
mons' most effective attack was a semi
fake left swing, followed with a quick
half-arm hook. The first time he tried
It, which was in the ithird round, Jim
threw back his head from the fake, com
ing forward for a counter, when he
thought Fitzsimmons’ glove was comfort
ably past his jaw. Quick as a flash Bob
doubled back and barely missed Jim's
Jaw with the hook. Corbett’s smile died
away for an instant, and he took no more
chances on countering on that particular
Jorm of lead afterwards.
’ The battle, as predicted, was fought on
purely scientific and almost new princi
ples. Neither of the men took any ad
vantage of the privileges allowed them
under the London prize ring rules and
there was very little hitting in clinches.
Corbett made no attempt to bring around
his right In breaking away, probably be
cause Fitzsimmons held his shoulders
too high. Jim’s only effort in the way
of a parting shot was a full right upper
cut, which he brought around very clum
sily and failed to land by at least a foot
every time he tried. He did get In one
good uppercut in the fourth round, split
ting Bob’s under lip and starting the
blood In a thick stream. Several times
the men clinched and parted with both
hands up.
FITZSIMMONS TALKS.
Frequently Bob fought Jim Into a cor
ner and fought him with right and left
blows. Fitzsimmons himself admits that
Corbett shuffled aside and stepped his
way to safety In a manner he never saw
before.
"I never saw such a clever man In my
life,” said Fitzsimmons this evening.
“He got away from me time and again
when I thought I had him dead to rights.
I knew I could wear him out so I kept
coming right along until my opportunity
arrived. He was weak In the last round
and all Ills cleverness could not keep him
out of that loft punch under the heart.
The only blow that really worried me was
the on? which split my Up; the others I
never felt. He fought fair and here
after he has my respect If he continues
to merit It."
CORBETT'S OPINION.
Corbett's opinion of his own Waterloo
did not vary greatly from Fitzsimmons’.
“I made a jnistake irt not keeping
away/1 was the way he put it. "Fitz
Bimmons I knew to bo a terrific punch
er, but I never calculated on his being
llableto reach the. If the sixth round had
lasted ten seconds longer I would have
landed him to a certainty. His nose was
clogged with blood and his legs were
wobbHrig. The gong sounded Just as I
was about to plug him with my right
and end the battle. He recovered won
derfully, and I stayed away 'from him
until T thought he was about ripe for
another drubbing at shopt range. /
‘IMy neglect In not standing off when 1
he happed me on the cheek In the four
tfem'.h round lost mo the championship.
That heart punch simply choked me up.
"I could not breath or move for fifteen
seconds, and it was several minutes be
fore I realized that I had committed a
breach of etiquette in trying to follow
up my opponent alter he put me out, I
meant it when 1 said I would be his
friend hereafter. He whipped me fair
and square, but I don't think he is the
best man yet, and we will have another
go if money can bring him into the ring."
FIGHT BY ROUNDS.
Round 1—Timekeeper Muldoon pulled
on the gong Btrlng at 12:08 o'clock. The
men faced each other, Corbett with his
back to the sun and Fitzsimmons blink
ing slightly ns the bright rays struck
him full in the face. Corbett danced
around lightly on his toes, Fitzsimmons
covering his ground more slowly. Both
were cautious and smiling. They feint
ed for an opening; Fitzsimmons forced
his man into a corner and was the first
to lead with a left swing which missed
Jim’s head by about ten feet. The Cal
ifornian did not land in his first attempt.
More leading at long range followed.
Fitzsimmons forced Corbett Into a rally
and uppercut him lightly In the clinch.
Corbett shot a light left on the body and
broke away clean. Fitzsimmons swung
ms lert out missea. A naru excnunge
of lefts followed In which the Australian
got a little the worst of It. Fitzsim
mons then adopted aggressive tactics
and rushed Corbett to his corner, but
Jim got out of danger and sent in a
heavy right on the body as he slipped
away. Fitzsimmons put a hard left
ovep the heart and Jim swung wildly with
his left, but landed his right on the body.
Corbett ran into a clinch, but they quick
ly broke clean. Fitzsimmons was still
forcing matters, but a hard left swing
put him on the defensive. Jim swung
his left on the heart and they came to
gether. Oh the breakaway Bob sent a
vicious left uppercut to the jaw. A
clinch followed and the men broke with
out a blow as the gong sounded.
Round 2—Fitzsimmons opened with a
left swing, but missel his mark. .They
came to a clinch and were rather slow
In breaking away. A vicious left from
Fitzsimmons just grazed Corbett’s breast
and again they v/ere inclined to hug In the
clinch. After the breakaway Jim sent
in a neat left on the face and a right on
the body, dancing away without a re
turn. Fitzsimmons again forced Jim into
his corner, swinging right and left for
the body, but Jim’s fast feet work took
him out of reach. Fitzsimmons got into
a clinch and In the breakaway got a
stiff left uppercut. Bob swung wildly
left and right. Long range sparring In'
which Jim did most of the leading fol
lowed. Jim got In a left on the ribs and
1 repeated the blow a moment later. Fitz
simmons smiled and tried to corner Jim,
who dodged quickly out of reach and
came back with a left on the wind. An
other left on the stomach brought the
round to a close with the men In a clinch.
It was clearly Corbett's on points.
Round 3—Jim opened with a rush and
sent a left jab hard on the wind. Fitz
simmons did not like It and tried to rush
In return, but was wild with his right
and left. Jim stopped another left lead
for the heart and countered smartly on
the stomach. Corbett put a left on the
wdnd and a right on the side of the head.
Bob’s stomach showed a red blotch
w here the Californian's left struck. Bob
took a hand In the forcing and lashed
out wildly, missing with both hands.
After a little long range work Jim shot
right and left on the body and Bob came
Into a clinch and landed his right on the
ear before they separated. Corbett shot
a terrible right on Bob's side and fol
lowed with a fast left on the wind. Both
men w'ere getting carefully and cleanly
put of clinches. Bob’s left reached the
wind, hut Jim swung right on the Jaw
In the clinch that followed. Then Jim
put his left on the body and as Bib came
In to clinch him, Jim piled up two stiff
rights on the wind and followed It up
with another on the body. Fitzsimmons
landed a nice left on the jaw after missing
the right lead for the stomach. The
clinch followed and Bob got in a straight
drive on the wind. A little hugging fol
lowed and for the first time the referee
came in between them and broke them.
Before the bell sounded a cessation, Fitz
simmons put a neat right on the body
and swung his left to the Jaw and the
honors were fairly even.
Round 4—Jim again led off with a left,
which failed to land, and they clinched
and broke clean. Bob tried with a tight
lead for the head and missed, but Cor
bett put a hard right punch on the body,
and In the clinch swung his right to the
Jaw. Bob was determined, but slow.
Corbett commenced to make things pret
ty lively, but they clinched three times
without a blow being struck. A light left
swing on the jaw from Corbett was re
turned with Interest by Fitzsimmons, as
iar as lnicnuun wem* uui & uftin
and left missed the mark by a few Inches.
Corbett landed two heavy rights on the
wind and put a straight left 1n the face.
Then Jim planted his right under Bob's
ear, and easily escaped a right and left.
Jim sent his right to the wind and Bob
clinched, taking an uppercut on the chin
before they broke. Corbett seemed to
cling to Fitzsimmons In clinches as if to
save his strength. Fitzsimmons shot out
his left with terrific force on the wind
and swung a hard right for the Jaw,
which was short. Corbett’s left landed
■on the stomach, and he repeated the dose
a second later. He swung, missing right
and left, but on his third trial he sent
his right to the stomach and followed it
with two swift lefts on the Jaw. Corbett
was on the aggressive now, and after
missing a loft for the head he sent his
right across on the stomach. Time was
called with the men clinched and smiling
in each other’s faces.
Round 5—Jim swung a hard left on the
Jaw, which made FitzSImmons groggy,
and the fatter 'tried to corner his rival,
but Jim was too fast, and got away,
sending a left on the Jaw as he skipped
back. Bob was not grinning qufte so
much now. Jim was a bit wild with a
right at the Stomach. but on the second
attempt he landed hard on the wind.
They exchanged hard right body blows,
and then Corbett landed with both hands,
his right finding the body and his left
the jaw. In the clinch he uppercut Fitz
simmons, and the latter returned the
compliment with a right hook on the Jaw.
Corbett sent in two right hand body
punches, and they clinched. After they
stepped back Jim’s right reached the
wind, but Bob countered with a Jolt un
der the chin. A left Jab from the Cali
fornian made Fitzsimmons’ mouth bleed,
and a howl of Joy went up from Corbett’s
admirers at the sight of blood. This
seemfd to nerve Jim, and he came In with
a hard right and left on both sides of
Fitzsimmons’ head. Fitzsipimons came
back with a right swing, which caught
Corbett just above the ear, and the Cali
fornian clindhed. They stepped back on
the word of the referee, and then Jim put
a heavy left on the Jaw, to which Bob
had no return. A right on the body and
a stiff left on the Jaw made the claret
flow freely from Fitzsimmons’ nose and
mouth, and he appeared, a little rattled.
Jim was now doing al-1 the work, and
h$ followed a right ^pd left on the jaw.
With a haTf-Srhl Tmn'dh. which was just
enough behind the point of Fitzsimmons’
jaw to minimize the danger. Corbett
showed much more confidence, and shift
ed his atlack from body to Jaw. Four
times before the bell rang Jim’s right
and left landed lightly on the point of
attack and, as the bell rang he uppercut
Fitzsimmons In a clinch.
Round 6—Fitzsimmons opened the
round with a right and left awing for
the Jaw which were both short. The
fast. Australian seemed to grow very vi
cious at his failure and he rushed at Jim
and hugged him hard, attempting to
wrestle him against the ropes. Referee
Siler quietly noticed the roughing and
'cautioned Fitzsimmons. The caution
eeemed to have the desired effect for in
the clinches which followed Bob was
much more cautious. Corbett landed
ff light left on the face and Bob came
back with his right on the body lightly,
but missed a terrific left swing for the
law. They clinched and Bob caught a
hard clip with the right on the side of
the bead in the breakaway. Corbett
sent in. a neat and effective right on the
wind and Came again with a right on the
ear and.left on the mouth and nose which
started the blood afresh. Encouraged
by his seconds and the shouts of friends
Jim followed his man all over the ring,
labblhg him hard with the left. Bob
appeared to be very near Queer street,
and hugged Corbett closely. While he
hung on Corbett uppercut him In the
wind, pasted a right and left on the law
and forced Fitzsimmons Into his corner.
Fitzsimmons came back at him, how
ever, and the fighting that ensued was
fast and furious, both men being cov
ered with blood. Jim sent a hard right
to the Jaw and swung his left, catching
Fitzsimmons under the ear and bringing
him to his knees. Fitzsimmons re
mained down until Siler called nine and
then got to his feet. Jim rushed at
once and planted right and left on both
sides of the face. Fitzsimmons kept
away for a time and recovered easily.
He was slow, hovyever, and kept clinch
ing. Jim uppercut him repeatedly in
the clinches and swung right and left
three times on the Jaw. Fitzsimmons
spepared groggy, but Jim lacked strength
to get In the deciding blow. In the clinch
Jim took a short arm punch on the nose
from Filzslmmops, who had recovered
wonderfully. A couple of Jolts on the
wind before the bell rang weakened Jim.
As Fitzsimmons went to his corner he
heard his wife say something about
blood on his face. He turned quickly and
said: "Never mind the blood, I’ve got
him licked,”
RouncJ 7—Fitzsimmons came up look
ing fresh and stood his ground. Corbett,
heiwever, was the first to lead with a
left on the Jaw and a right on the body.
Fitzsimmons stopped a hard right lead
for the body, but was wild with his right
and left and Corbett Jabbed him three
times in the face. Fitzsimmons put a
light uppercut on the chin and they came
together. Fitzsimmons was bleeding
freely and Corbett was plentifully be
smeared with the Australian’s gore. Jim
sent a light one on the face, Bob return
ing with a light left on the body. Bob
swung his rlffht hard for the Jaw, but
missed and they clinched. He tried
again with the s-ame result. Both were
cautious for a moment then Jim let fly
a light left on the nose. Bob reached
the face with a light left, but missed
with both hands in an attempt to get to
the Jaw. Jim shoved his left twice in
the face, Bob countering the last Blow
with a loft on the Jaw. Corbett’s right
caught Fitzsimmons hard on the wind,
but Bob countered heavily on the head.
They were slow In breaking away. Fitz
simmons got his right on the wind and
received a counter from Corbett with the
left on the same spot. Jim landed a
light left on the Jaw and both swung
wildly. Corbett put his left glove light
ly on the face and as Fitzsimmons ’
clinched he uppercut Corbett with a right :
on the Jaw. Both were sparring for i
wind at the end of the round.
Round 8—Jim opened with a light left,
which Bob stopped. The Australia!)
swung right and left, but missed, and Jig)
drove his left on the wind. Bob faked h
left lead, and then caught Jim lightly
on the Jaw with n right. Fitzsimmons
forced the fighting with n heavy left on
the wind, bu't he was very wild with his
right swings, and a couple of cllnchas
followed. Corbett cleverly evaded a left
for the head, and then sent his own left
for the body twice. Fitzsimmons drove
his left hard above the heart, but Cor
bett drew back time to avoid the full
force of the blow. Jim landed a hard left
hand punch on the side of the Jaw, and
Fitzsimmons commenced to bleed again.
Fitzsimmons ran into another left on the
Jaw immediately afterwards. They spar
red at long range for a time, and both
were cautious. A light left on the face
by Jim was followed By two left Jabs
which landed on Bob’s nose. The lat
ter swung right yand left wild'ly, and
caught Jim’s left on the nose. Again
Fitzsimmons swung, but Corbett ducked
and shot his left past Bob’s guard full
in the face. Just as the gong sounded
Corbett Jabbed a stiff left on the dam
aged nose and Fitzsimmons was quilckly
covered with blood. However, the Aus
tralian seemed to be getting stronger as
the fight progressed, and the men who
were offering 5 to 3 on Corbett found a
good many takers among Bob’s adher
ents.
IVUUHU O-XJMIU ojtaiicu Wiuuuuoij, au 4
Fitzsimmons seemed to be boxing well
within himself. Jim started the hall
rolling with a light left on the nose. Bob
countering lightly with the right on the
body. More long-range sparring took
place before Jim shot a stiff left on the
wind and then shoved his glove Into Bob's
face. Fitzsimmons ran in and put a left
on the chin, but was met by two stiff
lefts, one on the jaw and the other on the
nose. They clinched and Jim dTove his
right over the heart before they stepped
hack. Fitzsimmons missed two left
swings before he successfully landed on
the Jaw with a left hand hook, which
staggered Corbett. Jim swung left for
the Jaw. but Boh ducked. Fitzsimmons
did a lot of leading, but failed to land.
Jim put his hand on the face and stepped
back from two wicked leads. Fftzslm
mons would not be denied, however, and
he came again with a pile-driving right
on the body. As the round ended Cor
bett caught a left on the mouth. Fitz
simmons was veTy strong, but was
breathing hard as he sat In his chair.
Corbett was not showing the cleverness
his ardent admllrers expected of him.
Round 10—Bob led olT with a left swing
which Corbett avoided, but Fitzsimmons
came back at him and in the clinch which
followed put a hard left jab on the Jaw.
Both swung wildly and then clinched.
Corbett blocked Bob’s left, but could not
stop a stiff right that landed over the
kidneys and a hard left that found the
jaws. Bob’s left found the body and
he put his right In Corbett’s face. Jim
faked arleft lead, but could not draw tne
wily Cornishman out. Jim saw this
quickly and he adopted different tactics.
He sent his right with lightning speed
on the wind and his left on the body and
face and came back again with a right
on the body and a left on the face. Fitz
simmons did not like this and took a hand
in the attack himself. He put three
hard lefts In succession on Jim’s head
and swung a right over the ear that Jim
tried to avoid but failed. Jim’s left
yeached the face and with his right sent
a hard uppercut to the Cornishman’s
chin. Jim poked his left In the face
again, but took a stiff left hander on the
Jaw in return and this followed by two
strong lefts on the shoulder. Jim put his
left on tj>e body and came to a clinch. As1
they broke away Fitzsimmons hooked
him with a right under the ear, but Jim
retaliated with a right and left on the
Jaw. Fitzsimmons appeared very confi
dent and strong as he went to his corner.
Corbett did not seem to be weak, but his
face had a grayish pallor and his eyes
shifted nervously as he sat in his chair.
He had lost the confident smile with
which he opened tho.battle.
Round 11—Bob rushed, but his left lead
for the Jaw waajtiqpped and Jim ahot
two little lefts on , the Jaw. Corbett’s
(ConUnuea^oiT^oiirth'page!)
THE ALDERMANIC BOARD
Hold an Important Regular
Session.
BEHREN’S PARK CAR LINE
Again Occupies Considerable Time—Budget
Reported — Ordinances Introduced and
Acted Upon—Street Improvements.
The board of mayor and aldermen met
last night In regular session with the fol
lowing In attendance:
Mayor F. V. Evans and Aldermen
Wheeler. Ashford, Drennen, Rambow,
Kerr, McKntght, Melghan, Moore, Wil
liams, Graham, Hamilton, Pierce, Gray,
McCartin, Harrington and Hentschel.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and approved.
The city attorney was instructed to
prepare an opinion as to the duty of the
Birmingham Railway and Electric com
pany in regards to the operation of the
Behren’s Park car line and the same
was presented later on.
The opinion cited other cases bear
ing on the matter and also that the re
fusal of the company to further operate
the line In question, would be a breach
of duty to the public and a breach of
contract.
'The only recourses of the city were
summed up as follows:
''The city may condemn the tracks as
a nuisance and cause them to be removed.
"The city may secure a writ to compel
the company to operate the same, or
"The city may rescind the contract
of Sept. 30, 1890.”
The mayor was opposed to the action
of the company in operating the road
a few days at a time.
The matter was thoroughly discussed
and a letter from Mr. Robt. Jemison, of
the company, was read. Upon motion
the matter was referred to the majnr
with power to act.
Upon a suggestion from City Attorney
Lowe a resolution was passed in which
the board expressed its belief as to
whether the company was fulfilling its
contract to the city. The resolution
stated that the board was informed that
the company was not fulfilling the con
tract.
The matter of licenses was brought up
again, and It was thought that by an
oversight a mistake was made In the
plate glass ordinance. The matter
evoked a great deal of discussion and sev
eral agents were heard in discussion
against it.
Upon motion of Alderman Pierce the
rate of last year was re-established. It
is $25 per annum.
The sale of property on Park avenue
and TVcnticth street for non-payment
of Improvement tax was set aside upon
motion of Alderman McCartin. The
property had been sold for $20.
The same complaints were made re
garding other properties hpt wer- re
ferred to either the mayor or the. com
mittees.
The report of the finance committee
was read and filed. The accounts and
bills were ordered paid.
Petitions from Messrs. J. F. B. Jack
son and George Eustis and the Alabama
National bank were disallowed.
Alderman Pearce recommended that
$16.6S5 be appropriated to pay the Interest
on the bonded indebtedness, which will
be payable in April. The recommenda
tion was concurred in.
On account of there having been made
no appropriation for the militajry com
panies. the bills relating thereto could
not be audited. The matter was left
over until the next meeting and the fi
nance committee called to meet next
Saturday.
The resolution of the street committee,
offered by AMerman MtCartin, that the
Birmingham Railway and Electric com
pany be instructed to pave between their
tracks and sixteen inches on either side
of same on Seventh avenue and Four
teenth street, was adopted.
Also, a resolution was adopted order
ing the purchase of one car load of lum
ber to be used In repairing the bridges
over the sewers and sidewalks, which are
in a dangerous condition.
The petition of D. L. Brennan that he
be allowed to run a beer saloon on Ave
nue F and Eighteenth street was disal
lowed.
The resolutions prepared by City At
torney Lowe regarding the Behrems Park
line were adopted'. The mayor was au
thorized to take whatever steps were
necessary to secure the proper operation
of the line.
The light committee n ported numerous
complaints as to, lights that are fre
quently reported out. The company al
lows a rebate In such cases but the mayor
suggested lhat a man be employed for a
time to watch the lights in the city and
report as to their condition.
The light committee was instructed to
Investigate further and report at the next
meeting.
A great many petitions were received
and referred to the proper committees.
Letters were read from che police com
mission concerning the latter's action as
to the reduction of expenses.
The recommendation that the funeral
expenses of Myrtise Bowling, the little
girl accidentally killed hy Officer William
Perdue, foe paid by the city was concur
red in and the same ordered paid. Al
derman Moore was against Its payment,
as he thought that the city had no right
to pay it, and he Voted “no” when the
toll Was called.
A citation against Mr. James Weath
erly for $109.70 was made final.
Under the head of new business the
matter of appointing property tax ap
praisers for the city, to work in connec
tion -with the county assessors, was
brought up and referred to the mayor,
with power to act.
A new ordinance had been prepared
and handed to Alderman Rainbow, who
Introduced It by request, although he
was apposed to It. It was:
An ordinance to regulate the peddling of
vegetables In the city of Birmingham.
Be it ordained by the mayor and aider
men of Birmingham, That from and
after the passage of this ordinance U
shall be unlawful for any person or firm
to peddle vegetables in this city at any
time after 9 o’clock In the morning, ex
cept upon the payment of a license of
$10 for the current year and 'the usual
license fee.
This ordinance was referred to the
marke-t committee.
The ordinance relating to the regula
tion of funerals of persons dying from
certain contageous diseases was put upon
lt« sedond and third readings, and final
ly passed, with Alderman Hmtschel vot
ing "no.”
Upon motion, the board then went Into
executive session.
A BROAD ASSEWTTON.
dfeage, March 1L—BeWah A. Woods,
one of the shareholders In the Pacific
Loan and Homestead association has
JUed a bill in the superior court asking
for the appointment of a receiver for the
concern which he alleges Is In a hopeless
state of Insolvency. The bill also charges
D. C. Butts, the former secretary, with
deception and fraud by the employment
of which he has wrongly converted to
his own private use about $232,000 of
moneys belonging to the association. The
charges sweep in the board of directors in
general, as having compounded Butts’
alleged felony.
LOST HIS PURSE.
Last night Mrs. Sam Mingea, wife of
the efficient and popular Clerk of the in
ferior criminal court, attended the Wood
ward-Warren performance at the opera
house with her your.g Bon, Sam. They
occupied stouts in tile parquet. While in
the crowd at the exit Sammy’s pocket
was (picked, nnd Ms mother's black/
leather pockefbook, containing some val-/
uable papers, tickets and money, w.y %
stolen. Mrs. Mingea did not know exayk.*o
ly how much money was in her purse at
the time. Before Ehe left home last
night Mr. Mingea. who was too unwell
to accompany her, told his wife that she
would be robbed and not to take 'her
pocketbook. His forecast proved but too
correct. Mrs. Mlngoa found herself In an
embarrassing predicament, as she did no:
trJlss the money until she started to get
on the Ensley dummy on her way home.
SEVENTEENTH of march.
Entertains Birmingham's Contingent In
a Happy Style—Mubic, Songs,
Speeches the Order.
Some of the members of Divisions No.
2 and 3, Ancient Order of Hibernians, of
this city, took the Ensley dummy at 8:50
yesterday morning for Pratt City, and
were met at the depot by Division No,
3, of Pratt City. With the Columbian
brass band, preceded by the American
and Irish flags the three divisions
marched to St. Catherines church, where
the Rev.L. H. Galland celebrated mass
at 10 o’clock and preached a beautiful
sermon on the life of St. Patrick. The
choir was at Its best and dispensed ap
propriate mu.sic during the celebration.
The choir is composed of the following
talent: Mrs. A J. Reilly, Mrs. M. J.
Sherclln, Mrs. J. J. Breslin. Miss eJnnie
Sctlooles, Miss Mary Sullivan, Miss
Grade Hannigan. Miss Ella Travis, Mr.
A. J. Rielly, Mr. Michael Duggan, Mr.
(Tom Duggan, Mr. Wm. Hannigan and
Mr. M. J. Shevely.
After mass the members marched to !
the city hall, where the following young
ladies were preparing a grand banquet
for the members and their friends: Misses
Maggie Hannigan, Agnes Duggan, Rose
Vallejey, Mary Brodie, Katie Crawley,
Mary Ann Gallagher, Sarah Carlin and
Ellen Duggan.
President Wm. H. Grady then called
for order and stated that as the Rev.
Father O’Rielly and the Rev. Father
Henry, of Birmingham would arrive on
the 1 o'clock dummy the banquet would
be postponed until that time, but in the
meantime the band would dispense
American and Irish airs and songs appro
priate to the occasion would be the or
der.
Mrs. A. J. Reilly, who was loudly ap
plauded, stepped on the platform and
presided at the piano. The band struck
up '‘America’’ followed by ’’St. Patrick's
Day.” Michael Duggan was called for
a song and responded with, “I Wish That
Old Ireland Was Free.” Mrs. John Har
kins sang that beautiful ballad "Kil
larney." Hugh Harvey sang “Erin
Machree. J. J. Sullivan delighted the
audience with “Old Ireland Free Once
More.” Ed Dawson, "There Never Was
a Coward Where the Shamrock Grows.”
Mrs. John Ford, "No One Like Mother
to Me.”
The chair announced that It was near
dummy time, and appointed the following
members, Tom Duggan, Frank McGin
ty and John Harkins, to meet Fathers
O’Rtel'ly and .Henry and escort them to
the halt As the committee, with Father
O’RieMy and Father Henry came up the
steps to the hall, the band played "St.
Patrick’s Day,” and amidst applause
struck up the “Last Rose of Summer."
Chairman Grady, in his own happy
manner, announced thut rh? banquet was
ready, and It teok only a glance to see
that the tables were set and groalng with
the weight of the many things In sea
son to tempt the appetite.
At the conclusion of the banquet the
chalYnan tapped for order and stated
that the Rev. Father O^Rielly would say
something on the’life of St. Patrick, and
the Ancient Order of Hibernians. Fath
er O’Reilly then came forward and spoke
of the life of St. Patrick, telling of the
good he had done for the cause of re
ligion and civilization.
Other saints there were, who by God’s
appointment, converted people and na
tions to the true Christian faith, but we
cannot find one who met with such un
qualified success and whose work, shows
faith so well at this present day as Hie
saint whose festival Ireland’s children
delight In celebrating.
After several other remarks, which
called forth great applause, Father
O’Reilly spoke on the Hibernian society,
and congratulated those present on their
organization, with special reference to
union No. 1, Pratt City.
Father Henry, of Birmingham, fol
lowed Father 0’’Rellly. He said: “I am
Indeed glad to be among you to pay
honor to our patron saint. Through
out the Christian world the 17th of March
ts celebrated by the church of God. We
have reason to be proud as Irishmen,
when we know that today In the old
land our relatives and ancestors are hon
oring St. Patrick, and know at the same
time that we in this land of liberty are
doing the same.”
Mr. John W. O'Neil sang the “Wearing
of the Green." Mr. John Ford sang
"Larry McGee.” Mr. Hugh McGeever
spoke o»f the good the order had done.
Father Galland spoke of the virtues
of St. Patrick, and during his remarks
was loudly applauded. Miss Jennie
Sehooies sang the touching song “The
Shamrock from Dear Old Mother’s
Grave.”
Hugh Harvey sang "The Irish Immi
grant.”
After a vote of thanks to the clergy
and division No. 1, A. O. H., the audi
ence sang "God Save Ireland.”
A GOOD CAPTURE.
Early last night Officers Hagood and
Patton had a lively scuffle with a young
negro named Peyton Johnston In a sa
loon on Second avenue. The officers had
been on the lookout for Johnston for sev
eral days, and last night located him in
the rear of the saloon. Officer Patton
entered the door and the negro, seeing
him coming, made a break for the other
entrance, where he ran Into Officer Ha
good. During the scuffle.and before Pat
ton could arrive the negro caused a se
vere abrasion of the skin on the wrist of
Officer Hagood. The negro was finally
subdued and placed In the patrol wagon,
in whloh he was taken to the police sta
tion. The charges against the negro are
varied, comprising, as they do, vagrancy,
minor visiting a saloon and gaming. He
Is well known to the police, as he has
been In jail several times before.
HESING RESIGNS.
Chicago, March 17.—Washington Hes
Ing has resigned his postermastershlp
of the city of Chicago. Two days ago he
wrote and forwarded his resignation to
President McKinley.
THE ARBITRATION 'TREATY
Will Be Reported Favorably to
' the Senate.
/ " —
ANi PUSHED FOR ACTION
-
nd Gone Over Carefully by the Foreign
1
$ Relations Committee and Objection
able Features Eliminated.
>
Washington, March 17.—The aenata
committee sp^nt two hours this morning
in the consideration of the general treaty,
of arbltra/tlon with Great Britain, and
then ordered a favorable report to bo
made to the senate tomorrow, with
amendments 1n line with those indicated
In these dispatches heretofore.
The amendments are administrative
only in character. The scope of the treaty
has not been toudhed. Much of the pub
lic erll'ticlsm against the action of the
committee during the last session was
due 'to the alleged fact that the dam
mites had emasculated the convention
and made it practically a mere shell.
The amendment to the first article that
no question relative to ithe foreign dr do
mestic policy of either party should ba
included, which was previously given
such prominence, has disappeared entire
ly. The same result is reached, however,
1n n very different manner. The desig
nation of King Oscar of Sweden and Nor
way, as the umpire, has been stricken
out, as has been all reference to the jus
WUtfS Ul \ I1C BU|Ji Cim; vv/u i t- ifl in*.
States as members of the tribunal es
tablished under the treaty. In place of
this designation it is stipulated that
"jurists of repute" shall be named by the
president to act as such arbiters.
T‘he chief amendment to the conven
tion, however, is found in the clause
which reserves to the United States the
sanction of the whole treaty making
power iri deciding what questions shall
he submitted to arbitration. This pro
vision will make it necessary for the
president to submit to the senate for its
approval all questions intended to be sub
mitted to the arbitral court.
The commit ee have acted in the belief
that it was only reserved to this govern
ment the Identical power reserved to
Great Britain, which, under the treaty,
decides through Us premier what ques
tions shall be arbitrated. Under the
British form of government one man
atone, the premier, acting for the crown,
determines all matters of this sort and is
the sole oreaty-making power of the na
tion. This is,under this general treaty,
no deviation from the universal rule of
the British government; and, reasoning
thus, the senate committee secs no reason
why there should be any change in '.he
.practices—based upon the stipulations
of the written constitution—that have
goverend such questions with us since
the foundation of our government. In
other words, both poweris are made equal
and the subsequent proceedings under
the treaty, after it shall have bten rati
fied, will proceed according to the laws
of the respective governments of the
contracting parties.
It is needless to point out that under
th» treaty as thus amended no argum nc
can consistently be advanced that the
senate Is relinquishing any of the prerog
atives given it lay the constitution. It
will, by ratifying this treaty, indorse and
subscribe to the doctrine of universal
arbitration, to which th“ United Stat s
stands pledged, and then leave ail ques
tions as to details connected with the
submission of specific subjects to the con
stl'tuted authorities of both countries.
Acting Chairman Davis will urge as
speedy action In the senate as possible.
It is quite likely that much of the time
during the next two weeks will be spent
in executive session. Pending the ar
rival of the tariff lair In the senate the
treaty will bo discussrd. together with
the consideration of the presidential nom
inations, and Ic is the confident expecta
tion of the committee that It will lv- able
to have tbb convention out of the way
by the 1st of April.
THE TURF. ~
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March i7.—Fine weather,
a fast track and 5.000 people marked to
day’s sport. The best of the day, the
St. Patrick handicap of 51.MO, nine fur
longs. was won by Grayling. «a 7 to 1
shot in fast time. The Fi zslmmons
Corbett fight was read at the traok and
created much excitement.
First Race—Seven furlongs. Jake
Zimmer, Hi (R. Williams), 1 to 3, won;
Stachelberg, second; Rapalatehle, third.
Time, 1:29.
Second Race—Half mile. 2-year-olds.
Grac" Hlmyar, 100 (Clay), 10 to 7. won;
Eulalia, second; Lillian Russell, third.
Time, :49V6.
Third Race—Mile and a quarter. Booze,
108 (Clayton), 7 to 5, won; Otho. second;
Billy McKenzie, third. Time, 2 09*4.
Fourth Race—St. Patrick handicap, $1
000, mile and a furlong. Grayling. 93
CT. Burns). 7 to 1, won; Paladin, second;
Honor, third. Time, 1:55.
Fifth Race—For 3-year-olds, selling, six
furlongs. Charlie Christy, 101 (Clay),
12 to 1, won; Sugar Cane, second; Grae
fln. third. Time, 1:1514.
Sixth Race—For 4-year-nlds and up.
selling, seven furlongs. Laura Cotta. 92
(T. Burns), 4 to 1, won; Little Tom, sec
ond; Winslow, third. Time. 1:29*4.
ADVISORY BOARD
Of the Lend-a-Hand Society Will Hold
a Meeting Saturday Morning In
the Y. M. C. A. Building.
(The “Lend-a-Hand” society advisory
board will hold an Important meeting In
the parlor of the Y M. C. A. building
Saturday morning at 10:30 o'clock and all
members are exacted to be present.
The “Lend-a-Hand” society Is a new
organization In this city and deserving of
support by qll of Its citizens. Its ob
ject Is to disseminate pure, wholesome
literature among the poor and those con- .
fined In prison cells. It Is not a collect
ing society or In any way connected with
any of the charitable organizations of the
city.
The society deserves literature of all
kinds, such as magazines, books, news
papers and especially Bibles and Testa
ments, all of which will be distributed
in deserving places.
All contributions should be sent to the
Y. M. C. A building from which place
they will be distributed.
Mesdnmes Revllle and Parrish are mak
ing strenuous efforts in behalf of the,
society and are deserving of the highest
encomiums for their faithful efforts In
an unremuneratlve (financially) work.
Both ladles have been constantly on the
move since the society's organization
with but one aim In view—“a higher re
woril.'* .i*BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD._
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1897. NUMBER 52
Of Charlotte, N. C., Discusses the
Banking Question.
SAID TO BE AN EXPERT
He Advocates Greater Flexibility In the Meth
ods Now In Operation—Notes Must
Be Redeemed In Gold.
Baltimore, Md., March 18.—Mr. D. A.
Tompkins, a leading maufacturer of Char
lotte, N. C„ contribute? to the Manufact
urers’ Record this week an article in ad
vocacy of greater flexibility in banking
methods. He writes:
“Originally the present national bank
ing system was devised to put banking
capital in large quantities at the disposal
of the government for war purposes. It
served the purpose with eminent success.
For banks of deposit and discount the
system is still most excellent. The condi
tions which made it entirely satisfactory
during the war and in the period of pros
perity succeeding the war have so
changed that it i, no longer suited to
banks of issue. Conservative Judgment
calls fora rerorm wmcn bmu wii ™i
deficiency without sacrificing anything of
tile soundness of money or the safety of
banking. In order to accomplish this it
is genet ally conceded that:
"1—The money of this country shall be
kept as good as that of any other na
tion. Therefore it must be redeemable
in gold.
"2—That the national government must
itself retire from any participation in the
banki g business.
"3—The national government shall su
pervise the issue of all paper money, re
quire its redemption in gold on demand
and become responsible for its value.
•}. That the issue of .his sound, re
deemable and guaranteed money shall
be proportionate to the demand of legit
imate trade, and no more.
“5. That the comptroller of the cur
rency or other authovized government
agent or agents shall have discretionary
uuthori'ty to constrain the extent of
money issued to the limits of legitimate
trade.
"All the proposals to bring about the
reform rest on the principle of permit
ting the issue of hank notes upon the as
sets of tire banks, instead of upon the
basis of government bonds."
Mr. Tompkins believes that the two
most promising plans now formulated
seem to be that of Hon. J. H. Walker,
chairman of the committee on banking
and currency, and thn! of Mr. C. C. Ho
mer, known as the "Baltimore plan.”
He says, after analyzing the plans:
“Either of these systems would give en
tire relief from present difficulties and
troubles, provided they could be put into
effect without too much disturbance to
banking and business Interests.
'Tt has been suggested that a system
of land mortgage banks be started for the
benefit of the south and west. If the
needs of these sections were reduced to a
point where ft was necessary to mort
gage the land to give the people cur
rency, it would be a most unhappy con
dition.
"The south has abundant resources out
side of Its landed interest. It is today in
a better condition than the west, because
its lands are not mortgaged. It Is not
desired that they shall be. The lands of
Kansas are mortgaged to the extent of
75 per cent, of their assessed value; those
of Nebraska 72 per cent.; those of New
York 42 per cent.; those of North Caroli
na 10 per cent.; those of South Carolina
10 per cent, and those of Georgia 7 per
cent.
“Wha't Is desbed for the west and
south is not better facilities to mortgage
land, to oonsume the capital of the peo
ple, hut only a sound currency’—a me
dium of exchange for manufactured pro
ducts.
"The prevalent idea,” he continues, "of
permitting small banks with less than
$50,000 capital would give no relief. It is
worthy of consideration whether the min
imum capital might not be increased to
$100,000 to an advantage. It is useless for
the people to have to pay management
expenses for a lot of small banks if
larger ones will furnish the needed ac
commodation. With larger capital, bet
ter and cheaper management can be had
and the general banking business be made
safer.
“The advocacy of free silver In the
south is simply a manner of interpreting
a need for some circulating medium that
will circulate. It cannot be seen that
silver could not be used to advantage in
the absence of any other money. Call It
cheap money and the answer comes back,
conies quick, that cheap money is better
than no money at all. What is wanted is
a currency’ for current use, to handle and
exchange the products of labor, not fiat
money to invest or to use without work.
While there is no special infatuation in
the south for silver, there is no great
dread of the consequences of its use.
With the introduction of a good money
system the agitation of the subject would
quickly die. If the present status con
tinues the silver sentiment will grow
rapidly.
"No country could be more injured by
a fiat money of uncertain value than
'the south. It would be deplorable Ho
reach a condition where the cotton crop
could be bought with a depreciated cur
rency. to be sold abroad for good money.
The farmer would- be sure to suffer most
from any uncertainty or doubt about
the value of money. The experience dur
ing the war has not been forgotten and
will not be forgotten.
"The south wants no inflation. She has
no need for better facilities for mort
gaging land. These are too good now.
She needs banking facilities for furnish
ing the money to buy bagging and ties
to prepare cotton for the market, and to
be paid back when the cotton is sold <:o
buy cloth, coffee, horses, mules, fertil
izers and other needful things in sum
mer, and to be paid back when the crop
is so'd. to serve as a medium of exchange
of cloth for food and of food for cloth
between the factory operative and '.he
farmer. When .these two stop trading,
commercial cities must suffer. The real
re-form must bring into the banking sys
tem a feature which will make the issue
of noHes dependent noon and proportion
ate to the demands of varying commerce.
“Tn any satisfactory system all notes
must redeemable in gold at some cen
tral point, as well as over the counters
of the issuing bank.”
—
the£3'1
NEW ORIJEANS RESUETS.
New Orleans March 18.—Cloudy, warm
weather and a fast track made the sport
today of a lively order, in t^ljlch not a
favorite woti. Attendance, 3,000.
First Race—Seven furlongs. l.IHUn
105 (JCaywood). 4 to 1, won; The Sculptor
Becond, Overella thfifd. Time, 1:29.
Second Race—Six furlongs.Rush Fields.
104 (Cutreres), 15 to 1, won; Princess Bon
nle second, Mamie Callan third. Time,
1:36.
Third Race—Seven furlongs. Hums, 94
(Powers), 7 l:o 1, won: Marie C. second,
Prince of India third. Time, 1:28%.
.Fourth Race—(Mile and twenty yards.
Lizzie Mack. 101 CT. Burns), 2 to 1, won;
Chicot second, Little Tom third. Time,
1:44%.
Fifth Race—Seven furlongs. Stachel
berg, 101 (A. Barrett), 2 to 1, won: Nalrete
second. Oily Gammon hlrd. Time, 1:29%.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Rspalatchle,
99 (Songer), 7 to 2. w n: Julie D’Or second,
Taglioni third. Time. 1:16.
THAT MISSING HEAD.
Walling and Jackson Preparing a State
ment For the.Governor.
Cincinnati. Ohio, March IS.—The Poet
this afternoon prints a dispatch from its
correspondent in Alexandria, Ky.. saying
that Jackson and Walling are preparing
a final statement of the Pearl Bryan mur
der, which will be transmitted to Gov
ernor Bradley.
The name of Dr. Wagner, of Bellevue,
who was confined in the Lexington insane
asylum shortly after the murder, it is
said, will figure In the confession. The
two men will allege that Wagner knew
more of the case than wa^ ever told or
even suspected.
The question as to the whereabouts of
Iho head will be touched on lightly and
it Is hinted that Wagner, were he sine,
could te 11 something Interesting concern
ir.g its disposition. The prisoners will re
affirm their Inability to restore the head
of the murdered girl.
TO COMPEL A RECOUNT.
Omaha, Neb.. March 18.—Both the leg
is’otive committee and the commission to
recount are camping peacefully about the
ballots at Lincoln, each claiming pos
session. Governor Holcombe has advised
th: legislature that it has a right to take
control. Attorney (General Smith has
asked for a mandamus to compel the re
counting to proceed.
DEAD BABE IN HER ARMS.
Distressing Report From the Overflowed
Di^.rict Along the Mississippi River
—More Rain Falling.
Memphip, Trnn.. March 18.—The work
of rescuing the people In the flooded dis
trict Is being carried on night and day.
and this morning half a dozen steamers
brought to Memphis over 1,000 refugees.
The steamboat m n tell some harrowing
stories of suffering and death. On. wo
man who was rescued from an Indian
mound1, fifteen miles west of here, held
in her aims a dead infant; that had per
ished from cold and hunger. Another
family of four, when rescued, related that
two small children were drowned in sight
of their helpless parents.
Islands Nos. 40. 37 , 36 and 34. in the Mis
sissippi river, are completely submerged
and the inhabitants, to the number of
about 600, have abandoned their homes.
Rain began to fall yesterday afternoon,
and at noon today there had been no
cessation of the downpour. The river
now marks 36.9. The levees are standing
the strain much better than expected,
bul: a break is liable to occur at any mo
ment.
INSURGENTS ACTIVE.
Make a Bold Attack Upon Giianabacoa
—Fighting Reported to Have Been
Kept Up All Night.
New York, March 18.— A special from
Havana to the Evening Sun says: Fir
ing was heard in the direction of Guana
baooa all last night, and at midnight
flames were seen in that direction. It
Is rumored here that Gen. Rodriguez’s
band made another daring attack upon
the place and raided the Interior of the
city and burned three houses occupied
by Spanish officers. It is supposed that
the object was to capture some of the
leading officers, and much excitement
exists.
iThe fighting is said to have continued
all night. At times the firing was heavy,
indicating that large forces were en
gaged.
TWENTY APPLICATIONS
For Fat Jobs Beifore McKinley—Frank
Threat, of Demopolis, In
the Batch. •
Washington, March 18.—Twenty ap
plications for positions as collector of
internal revenue were filed at the treas
ury department today. Among them
were these:
Texas—(S. F. Noyes, of Dallas, at Dal
las.
North Carolina—E. C. McMillan, of
Moul.h of Wilson, Va., at Asheville, N. C.
Alabama—F. H. Threat, of Demopolis,
at Birmingham.
Other applications were filed as fol
lows:
North Carolina—H. P. Cheatham, of
Littleton, register of the treasury.
Virginia—C. I. Nourse, of Casanova,
register of the treasury.
Louisiana—H. L. Coleman, of New Or
leans, collector of cui4.oms at New' Or
leans.
Texas—W. R. Briscoe, of Coopera, col
lector of customs at Galveston.
Tennessee—T. A. Hamilton and J. P.
Alban, of Memphis, surveyor of customs,
at Memphis.
The White House was closed today, ex
cept to those who came on business.
Ex-'Representatlve Settle, of North
Carolina, called on the president with
Representatives Llnney and Pierson, who
urged his appointment as Judge of tho
Eastern district of North Carolina. They
are confident that 'Mr. Settle will get the
place.
Other North Carolina offices have not
been so easily arranged. A big delega
tion from the Tar Heel State, headed by
Senator Pritchard, called to talk about
offices. The cor.grf sasional delegation has
been unable oo agree on candidates.
SUGAR ON THE RISE.
New York, March 18.—Sugar prices
were advanced today. Members of the
trade were surprised, and could assign
no reason to Justify the advance, except
th? proposed Increase In duties under
the tariff. The advance was l-8c per
pound for all grades of hard refined su
gars, and of the soft grades Nos. 1 to 6
were also l-8c higher, while l-16c was
added to the price on Nos, 7, 8, 12, 14
and 15. This change puts granulated
at 4 5-8c, which Is the highest price It
has touched in many months.
FRENCH TRANSFORT AGROUNI},
Toulon, March 18.—The French {rans
port ship Auvergne, having on board
troopsi, arms, stores, etc., destined for
Canea, Crete, is aground, and It has been
necessary to land >:he men and stores In
order to float her.
STILL A LITTLE FRICTION
Relative To Dingley’s Now Ready
. Tariff Bill.
FIGHTING JOE WHEELER
Gets In His Oar Though Forced To Withdraw It
Because of a Too Strong Re
publican Majority.
■Washington, March IS.—The tariff bill
will be reported to the house tomorrow
by the ways and means committee. So
far as Chairman Dingley and his repub
lican associates can influence action, the
•final vote on the measure will be taken
In the house on the 31st Instant. The
bill will be called up for consideration
on Monday next.
The democrats manifested considerable
opposition at today's meeting to report
ing the bill before Monday next, their
contention being that in justice to the
minority It should be retained in com
mittee until that time.
Mr. tVheeler, democrat, of Alabama,
urged that If the bill was to pass the
house on the 31st Instant, It were better
to call it up on Friday.
As the democrats were not a unit re
specting this proposition, it was not
agreed to.
It was understood, however, that no
night sessions should be held In order
that all the members of the house
might have an opportunity of express
ing their views.
A number of changes were made to
day In the bill. Among them were the
following:
An addition was made to paragraph
125 relating to iron or steel anchors, as
follows: Anti-friction ball forgings of
iron or steel, or of combined iron or steel,
45 per cent ad valorem.
Welded cylindrical furnaces mad“ from
plate metal two and one-half cents per
pound was added in the paragraph 149
of the metal schedule. It was stated
that the effect of this would be to in
crease the duty at lea3t one-half cent
per pound.
Paragraph 208 of the sugar schedule
has been made to read as follows: Su
gars not above 36 Dutch standard, etc.,
testing not above 75 degrees, one cent per
pound; and for every additional degree,
3-100 of a ernt per pound additional and
fractions of a degree in proportion.
The provision relating to molasses was
amended so as to read: Molasse: test
ing above 40 degrees and not above 56
degrees, 3 cents per gallon.
Paragraph 212, relating to leaf tobacco,
was amended so as to read: Provided,
that If any tobacco imported in any bale
box or package, or in bulk, shall be the
growth of different countries or shall
contain exceeding 15 per centum thereof
of leaves, etc.
Paragraph 214, the duty on manufac
tured tobacco not otherwise provided for,
Is Increased from 40 to 65 cents per
pound.
Snuff and snuff flour was Increased
from 40 to 65 cents per pound,
Sausages of all kinds were stricken
from the meat schedule and placed on
free list.
Paragraph 341, relating to plain woven
fabrls of single jute yarns, was changed
so as to make the weight seven instead
of eight ounces per square yard, where
the duty was placed at seven-eighths of
a cent per pound and 15 per cent advalo
rem.
The duty on bags or sacks made from
plain woven fabrics or single jute yarns
was changed to one and one-eighth cents
per pound and 15 per cent ad valorem.
In paragraph 397 the duty was in
creased from 20 to 25 cents per pound
on lithographic prints or o.her material,
bound or unbound, on paper or other
material not exceeding 8-1000 of an inch
In thickness. On paper or other material
exceeding S-1000 of an inch in thickness
and exceeding 35 square Inches, cutting
size, the duty was increased from 8 ,to 12
cents per pound. On prints exceeding
8-1000 of an inch and not exceeding 20
1000 of an inch in thickness and net ex
ceeding 35 square inches, cutting size, the
dully was increased from 5 to 10 cents per
pound. An increase from 6 to 9 cents per
pound was made on lithographic prints
exceeding 20-3000 of an inch in thickness.
The duty on lithographic cigar labels and
bands, if printed1 in ten or more colors,
Including labels printed In whole or In
part in metal leaf, was reduced from 30
to 25 cents per pound. Printed in whole
or in part In metal leaf, tihe duty was re
duced from 40 to 30 cents per pound.
Plaflk books and others enumerated in
paragraph 400 were increased from 20 to
25 per cent, ad valorem.
aii me roregoing nmenaments were
offered by ‘the republicans and adopted
by a strict party vote.
A number of amendments were of
fered by ehe minority members of the
committee and promptly rejected. Mr.
Wheeler, democrat, of Alabama, for ex
ample, moved that bagging and cotton
ties be placed on the fre= list. Later he
offered another amendment placing
barbed wire on *;he free 11st.
Mr. Swanson, democrat, of Virginia,
moved to strike out the differential duty
in the sugar schedule. He explained that
in levying tariff duties the rates ought
not to be imposed so as to give a monop
oly of the American market to any com
bination or trust. He maintained that it
was distinctly understood that the Ameri
can Sugar Trust, in combination with
Claus Spreckels, had the absolute con
trol of the American market for refined
sugars. His amendment shared the fate
of the other minority amendments.
Mr. Robertson, democrat, of Louisiana
moved an increase in the tariff of un
cleared rice, his argument being that
the present tariff protects the manufac
turer only, which is a discrimination
against the farmer. The reply to Hhts, as
the amendment was voted Sown, -was
that the protection given in this bill was
greater than that given by ithe present
law.
Mr. ‘MCLraurln, democrat, of South Car
olina, moved that a duty of 2% cents per
pound be placed on all Importations of
raw cotton. Rejected.
Mr. Wheeler’s amendments fto place sul
phuric acid and black made from bone
used In the manufacture of quinine on
the free list was defeated.
Mr. Wheeler then offered another
amendment to reduce the duty on white
pine and hemlock from 22 to $1 per 1,000,
which was rejected, las was also his
amendment to place ‘‘other woods" In
the paragraph relating to posts, railroad
ties and telegraph poles on the free list.
There was also a strict party vote op
the rejection of Mr. 'McMlIHn’s amend
ment to Eulbtf.itute the wool schedule of
the t>regCnt la% for the schedule In the
bill reported Monday last.
The other amendtnehts offeredl were not
material, except that proposed by Mr.
Robertson authorizing the president to
give notice of the abrogation of the
Hawaiian treaty, which was promptly
voted down. i
PURSE AND IE BETS PAID
Martin Julian Received Them
From Stakeholder Smith.
_
BILL BRADY WAS PRESENT
Fitz and Corbett Have a Chat In Which Ugly
Threat;, Were Used—Pugs Anxious to
Try at the Champion,
Carson, Nev., March 18,—A number of
sensational rumors which were tele
graphed to the effect that Fitzsimmons
was dangerously 111 caused a little excite
ment in town. When they became known
there was a scurrying for hacks to trans
port Inquirers In Cook’s ranch, and the
jaded livery horse3 were robbed of an
hour’s rest by these ignorant vaporlngs.
When Fitzsimmons’ quarters were reach
ed and tlie visitor’s mission made known,
the champion and nis tamiiy expresseu
indignation freely at the cruel cajiurds.
The fact is that Fitzsimmons at no time
after he stepped out of the ring suffered
any physical pain beyond that caused by
a slight fracture of hts right thumb Joint,
which he received in the second or third
r..u„d of the battle. A piece of flesh
colored court piaster was over his cut
and swollen lip, a heightening of his or
dinary ruddy complexion and a. white
linen bandage wrapped around his thumb
were the only evidences of the conflict.
Marlin Julian was deputed to answer
e■ ; v.atulatory correspondence, a task
which kept him glued to the telegraph
counter for hours.
Stakeholder A1 Smith turned over the
purse and side-bets to Julian this morn
ing in Dan Stuart's office. William A.
Brady, Secretary Wheelock and a few re
porters were present when the transfer
was m ide After the checks were handed
over t" Julian, Brady renewed his offer
made last evening to back Corbett against
Fitzsimmons for $20,000. Julian’s reply
was evasive.
He Intimated that Fitzsimmons would
soon retire from the fistic arena, and
Judging by expressions uttered by ihe
champion it is not improbable that this
wilt be on the programme. All along
Fitzsimmons has asserted that this was
the last time he would undergo the or
deal of training. Fitzsimmons’ reply to
Corbett after they had shaken hands In
Bob’s corner yesterday Indicated that the
Cornlshnvan was thinking of retiring.
"You’ve licked me fair and square.”
said Jim. "Now, I want you to give me
Biioiher chance."
Th“ champion replied coldly: "Good
night; will net fight you again.*
"Then I will punch you on the head the
first tiro- I meet you on the streeet,” was
Corbett’s retort.
"If you do.’ answered Fitz
simmons, wi'.h *a bitter smile and an even
tone. "I will kill you.”
Brady, however, thinks still that Cor
bett Is the better man of the two, and he
is willing to back hts Judgment.
TV Corbett parky, including Brady,
McVey, Woods, Delaney, White, Ed
Green arwl Jeffries, deserted Shaw’s
Springs this evening. Brady and White
will go east from Beno to New York to
night, and theethers return to Saji Fran
cisco.
Martin Julian was disappointed alt not
being able to secure the Mechanics' pa
vilion in San Francisco for an exhibition
tomorrow evening. He has accepted an
offer on behalf of the champion for his
appearance at Sutros' Baths, and ihe
Haight street chutes on Sunday.
'According Yo his present programme,
Fitzsimmons will leave Carson tomorrow
with his wife and child Martin Julian,
Berber, Hickey and Stelznor will accom
pany h1n». Tt is thought that as to the
future Fitzsimmons will accede to his
wife’s desire of making her home In New
York City.
T leaked out this evening that Dan '
Stuart had offered a purse of $10,000 for
a meeting between Fitzsimmons and Joe
Goddard, to take place in Carson three
months hence. Billy Madden, represent
ing Goddard, jumped at the proposition,
and .Julian is thinking it over now. It
will be leifi. for the champion to decide
whether he wild defend his title. Mrs.
Fitzsimmons Is violently opposed to the
Id a, an<i( it is possible that Bob will heed
her ndvlee.
Maddc-n tried hard to get a match for
Steve O'Donnell, but failed.
Jeffries, ' he Los Angeles giant, who has
been assisting In Corbett’s training, is
ma.'ohed against Theodore Van Busk irk.
of the 'San Francisco Olympic club.
FITZ WILL RETIRE.
His Wife Makes the Request, and He
Grants It—Felt a Little Sore After
His Night’s Rest.
Oarson. Nev., March 18.—Fitzsimmons
retired at midnight last night. He did not
sleep well, his muscles twiched and his
arms ached. He got up at 7 o’clock this
morning and took a rub-down. He com
plained of sore Joints, but otherwise never
felt better. He dined at the penitentiary
today as the gueBt of the warden. If ac
commodations can be secured Fitzsim
mons and party will leave tonight for
the coast. After showing in San Fran
cisco, he will work his way to New York,
giving exhibitions and settle down in
Gotham and retire from the ring. His
wife insists upon this concession., and
Fitzsimmons is willing to give in for the
sake of his family.
The town is forlorn this morning.
There is a dTlving snow storm from the
southwest. 'Nearly all the visitors have
departed. The kinetoscope apparatus has
been taken down and crated for ship
ment, the chairs removed from the nrena
and all traces of the battle disappearing.
By tomorrow Dan Stuart’s staff will be
the only strangers left in the city.
OORtBETT AtiL, RIGHT.
Shows No III Effects of the Encounter
All Engagements Off.
San Francisco, Cal., March 18.—Corbett
arrived in this city on aSspeclal train last
night. There were very few at the sta
tion when the ex-champion alighted, and
(he at once entered a cab and was driven
to his home.
This morning he shows no ill effects of
his contest with Fitzsimmons. He 1s
up and around, and appears to be In hia
normal condition.
It Is said he has no plans for the future
and that he has cancelled1 all engage
ments.
FIRE IN A PRINTING OFFICE.
Richmond, Va., March 18—About 1
o'clock this afternoon, fire broke put in
the mailing worn She Dispatch bulkjj
ing, and before 1t was suhaueA a loss of
$2,000 was sustained. The room was on
the third, or editorial, floor of the build
ing, and Mr. W. P, Cheater man, met nag
lng editor, the only person on the floor
at the time, was cut off from the stairway
and had to make his way t o the street on
•the Are escape. The paper issues aa
usual tomorrow, all machinery being in
tact.
MOST DARING ATTEMPT
iTb Kidnap a Child Frustrated by the
Death, of the Would-Be Kidnapper.
Houston, Tex., March 18.—The most
daring attempt at crime ever known was
frustrated this morning at 3 o'clock
when detectives killed Walter Hughes
as he was in the act of entering the home
of Frank Dunn, a wealthy resident of
this city.
The police received information some
time ago that a scheme was on foot to
kidnap Dunn's little daughter. The pur
pose of the kidnappers was to keep the
girl in captivity and demand $4,000 ran
som for restoring her to her parents.
Detectives have been on guard at Mr.
Dunn’s for several nights, but develop
ments occurred this morning, when it
was discovered that a man was attempt
ing to force one of the windows of the
Dunn residence. One of the officers in
advertently attracted the attention of
the marauder, who, finding he was dis
covered, drew a pistol and fired at the
officers. Th" detectives then opened fire
and the Intruder fell. He was r> railroad
man, but has lately been working as a
carpenter. He had rented a house near
Dunn’s, and under the floor of one of the/
rooms had dug a, cave, in which the kid
napped child was to be secreted until
the ransom was paid. At a point some
distance from the city Hughes had ar
ranged a number of tin boxes, where he
had intended to direct that the rar.som
money be deposited. Hughes also Inten
ded to give notice that if any watch was
kept over these depositories it would re
sult In the death of the child.
When Hughes' body was searched a
revolver, a keen-edged butcher knife and
some chloroform were found.
Mrs. Hughes has been arrested, but
will not talk.
VERY ENCOURAGING
Is the Report From the Appalachian
Gold Mining Company's
Property,
Nashville, Tenn., March 18.—The or
ganization cif tire Appalachian Gold Min
ing company, under a charter of the
state of Tennessee, was perfected today
in all of its arrangements to commence
operations on a large scale at Dahlon
egu, Ga., located in the foot-hills of the
Blue Ridge mountains.
This company is the owner of very val
uable gold property. Experts, who have
recently examined it, pronounce the ore
to exist in large quantities and rich In
quality, and nut surpassed by any gold
producing section in this country, ami
equal to any gold mining property.
The successful wurking of .he company
is ssured fact, and means much to
the south in the way of maktny known
the vastness and richness of its gold
producing property. Judge W. W. Mur
ray is president, and Hugh F. Klngstock.
secretary and treasurer.
TERRIBLE EXPERIENCE
Of a Crew and the Captain’s Family
on Board a Mer
chantman.
Norfolk. Va., March 18.—The sailing
ship Cambrian King arrived in Hamp
ton Roads yesterday with her sails gone,
they having been blown away In a storm
at sea last .Sunday week. She Is loaded
with oil, shipped by the Standard Oil
company, and was bound from New
York to Hong Kong, China. She had a
severe experience, and the crew were
about to cut away her spars when the
wind shifted and the storm abated. As
it was, besides the loss of her sails, they
had to throw overboard 2,450 cases of oil
and the rest of the cargo shifted, .which
may necessitate her unloading and re
placing her cargo.
A survey is in progress, and she is ex
pected in the harbor tonight. During
the storm the captain’s wife and children
had a narrow escape from drowning,
the cabin nearly filling with water be
fore they could be gotten out. They
were rescued by the steward, and In five
minutes after they were gotten out the
cabin was full of water. (The vessel’s
decks will require reeaulklng.
LEVEES BREAKING
All Along the Mississippi River, and the
Worst Is Yet to Come—(Mother and
Four Children Found Dead—Gov
ernment Aid Needed.
Memphis, Term., March 18.—A levee !
near Oaruthersvllle, llo., broke this after
noon, but what damage was done is not
known. Private reports are <hat it was
simply a break, while the levee board
declares that it was the result of a cut.
There have been no additional drownings
reported today, but the rumored drown
ing of five from a bridge li* Arkansas
was confirmed.
The victims were a mother and four
children, lb is now believed that the vast
majority of imperilled people within the
reach of Memphis have been rescued.
There are about 3,000 of them here. The
relief committee today wired Gov. Jones,
of Arkansas, for state aid. and urged
that he seek federal aid through Arkan
sas congressmen. He replied there were
no funds at his disposal for that purpose,
and that he could do nothing to aid the
refugees from his state. The Mississippi
Valley train south was blocked tonight
by a 300-foOit washout a few miles out.
The war department notified Capt.
Fitch, of the United 'States engineering
corps, today t'hat $10,000 had been as
signed to his order for use in maintain
ing the levee3 in his district.
The river here Is still rising. Reports
from the levees south tonight are not en
couraging. From Helena to Relief, Ark.,
the levee cannot possibly stand, it is
asserted, and from there to Modoc, a dis
tance of thirty-six miles, there is grave
danger What the levee cannot hold until
morning. There Is a break on the Mis
sissippi side across from Helena today,
SUNDAY IS THE DAY.
London, March 18.—The St. James Ga
zette asserts that the biockhde of the
coasts of Crete by the warships of the
powers will begin next Sunday morning,
and that the foreign admirals have re
quired Greece to withdraw her warships
from Cretan waters before that time;
otherwise force will be employed to com
pel their departure.
UNDELIVERED TELEGRAMS.
Undelivered telegram at the Western
Union Telegraph office; Geo. G. Olmsted.
VERY SHORT OPEN SESSIONS
.
Held By ;i the House and
vSenate.
I _
MORGANS MANLY PLEA
[3
/
In Expu^.ve Session For the People as
/•/
A«.f.nst International Arbitration—
fMore Bills Introduced,
Washington, March IS.—A large num
ber of bills (most of them survivors of
the last congress) were introduced in
the senate today and referred.
Correspondence with the German gov
ernment relating to insurance companies
was taken up and referred. The consti
tutional amendment for popular election
of United States senators was rc-intro
duced by Mr. (Purple, democrat, of In
diana, who announced his purpose to
address the senate upon it next Monday.
Mr. Gear, republican, of Iowa, from
the committee on Pacific railroads, re
ported the bill which was pending last
session for the adjustment of the govern
ment debt through a commission to con
sist of the secretary of the treasury, tho
secretary of the interior and the attor
ney general—the settlement to be sub
mitted to the president for his approval
or disapproval, and not to be binding
unless approved by him. He desired to
have it made the' "unfinished business”
for a month hence, but objection was
made by several senators, and the 1)111
was placed on the calendar.
•Mr. L<odge, republican, of Massachu
setts. offered a resolution which was
agreed to. instructing the committee on
foreign relations t, inquire and report
whether the islands of St. Croix. St. John
and St. Thomas. In the West Indies, can
now bp purchased from the Danish gov
ernment. as by the treaty of 1807, and
whether If they be not purchased by the
United States, it is probable that they
will be sold by th- Danish government to
some other power.
At the close of the morning business
the senate at 1 p. m. proceeded to the
consideration of - xecutiv- business, an l
at 2:15 o'clock adj -urned until tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
The house reassembled at noon pur
suant to adjournment, a very large pro
portion of the members being prestnt
and the public galleries were well filled.
The chaplain's prayer and reading of tlie
Journal occupied fifteen minutes. The
speaker laid before the house the recom
mendation of the pnptmsster-general for
an appropriation of $200,Ocn to be immedi
ately available to enable the government
to defray the necessary expenses of the
postal congress which will assemble in
Washington In May next.
The department finds itself In the em
barrassing position of having the con
gress on its hands with no means to pro
vide for its reccjition and entertainment.
Mr. Henderson, republican, of Iowa,
stated that th- c- remittee - n ways and
means would not be ready to report until
tomorrow, therefore, he moved that the
house adjourn until Friday.
This was agreed to without division,
and at 12:18 the house was declared ad
journed by Speaker Reed.
SENATE EXECUTIVE SESSION.
Immediately after the senate went inio
executive s-,e=sion ‘hi.- afternoon, Senat r
Davis, for the committee on foreign il
lations. submitted a report on the general
treaty of arbitration with Great Britain,
with certain amendments made hy the
committee. He offered a resolution that
the treaty, ns amended, be ratified, and
this started the discussion.
Senator Morgan, of Alabama, took the
floor immediately and began a vigorous
speech against the ratification of the con
vention. The rtatem nts of the senator
from Alabama were largely repetitions
of the speeches made hy him n the sub
ject during Mi • la: t session, when the un
successful effort was made to ratify the
treaty. He took the ground th"* '• ••oulrt
be unwise nnd impolitic for the United
Stales to tie its hands hy a treaty of
arbitration of any sort whatever so 1 ng.
as the other contraotlng party was Great
Britain. That country, he contended,
was the general enemy of ail na'ions;
Its hand was ralsPcl against ali other
(powers in its 'struggle for territorial
aggrandizement and its fight l' r the val
uable possessions of tho world. Th-re
was In this treaty, ho argued, a hild-n
pi1.fall, into which the United Ste: s was
about to piling . nnd lie urg 1 s-naJars
to refuse to sanction a :rcalv n^it gave
our natural enemy rvery advantage; a
treaty that was us-less and formula'ed
in response to a sentiment that ought
not to exercise th- slightest control in
the management of the affairs T a great
nation.
'Mr. Morgan spoke also for his col
leagues on 1-he committee, M ears. Mil’s
and Daniel, but it is probalil- that be
fore the debate lias proceeded very far
both of these men will hav something
to say for themselves.
The chances sr- tha" the -1 Mote will
continue through several days
SUMMER NIGHT FESTIVAL
To Be Repeated By Birmingham
Deutcher .Turn Vereln —Fireworks
Ordered.
Yesterday President E. Lets r, of the
Birmingham Turn Vereln, cl. sad the con
tract for the grand fireworks display
to be given at I,ak»v|cw park on the night
of Wednesday, June 2. The contrat'f was
awarded the A. I. Due Fireworks e:mi
pany, of Cincinnati, who will not only
build the designs submitted by the com
mittee, but will send a man to this city
to superintend ra%-. display.
The entertainment will be given as tha
Summer's Night Festival, and will la
every respect surpass that o£ last year.
The Due Fireworks company, the same
people who furnished the fireworks last
year, have promised to surpass Uheir
former efforts.
In the pavilion at'Lakevlew park a
grand concert will be given by the local
singing societies, to which u small ad
m|s«!cn fee will be charged. The display
will be absolutely free of all charge
The contract culls foi an expenditure of
many hundreds dollars, which goes
to prove that neither expense nor pains
will be considered in making i.he festi
val a success.
The committee on designs will report
early next week, when the set pieces
and a full programme of the concert will
be given to the public.
IS ET MERELY.A RUMOR?
Paris, March 18.—The Echo De Paris
publishes b rumor that the government
of Crete will be offered to Prince Hem I,
of Orleans, who is now In Ahvesinl* at
the head of an exploring expedition.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 1897. NUMBER 53
ANOTHER HALF-INCH RISE
And the Mississippi Will Be Be
yond Control.
MILE UPON MILE OF LAND
Disappeared From Sight, Hidden by a Fierce,
Raging Torrent.
CUMBERLAND RIVER ON THE RISE
And East Nashville Being Bapidly Inundat
ed—Thousands of People and Much
Stock in Danger — Storms Have .
Ev/ept the Entire Continent.
Memphis, Tern., March 19.—A further
half inch rise In the Mississippi means
the devastation of property and probably
a loss of life unequalled in the flood his
tory of this section. The rise is threat
ened because rain is still falling. Sev
enteen persons are reported drowned fifty
miles below Caruthersvllle, Mo.
A stretch of country over 100 mile lon&
from a point seventy miles north of Mem
phis to a point fifty miles south of the
Tennessee metropolis Is under water in
places to a depth of ten feet. The fer
tile valleys of Tennessee and Arkansas
are completely Inundated and many lives
have been lost and stock drowned, fenc
ing and dwellings sw-ept away, Inhabi
tants destitute and homeless, and left co
starve or drown by the rising tide. Re
ports from tributary streams show rains
are rapidly rising rivers, floods which
will soon be emptied into the Mississippi
adding to the danger when hurled
against the already weakened levees. The
levees are patrolled hourly by armed and
desperate men, provided with sand bags
to strengthen weak places or to close
threatened crevices, and rifles to shoot
down any miscreant who would venture
to cut ilie embankment.
iThe floods now’ partake of the nature
of a deluge. As far as the eye can see
nothing but water meets the gaae.
Six hundred people were rescued yester
day on the Arkansas side of the river,
and taken to Memphis, but there are flood
districts so situated that relief boats can
not reach the stricken ones. On island
£9, 100 sufferers and considerable live
stock were rescued by the steamer Itas
ca. Neither man nor beast had tasted
food for over twenty-four hours. Hu
man beings and helpless brutes are hud
dled together all along the lion Moun
tain and Kansas City, Fort Scott and
Gulf tracks.
Five hundred people were forced to flee
fro... the floods in Dyer and Obion coun
ties, Tennessee.
TEXAS. STORM-SWEPT,
Houses, Barns, Cars, Telephone and Tel
egraph Wires Blown Down.
Dallas, Tex., March 19.—A heavy wind
storm,which In some places assumed the
appearance of a cyclone, passed over this
part of the state last night. At Piano
the gale leveled the sheds of the Cotton
Belt and Central roads, blew over freight
cars and unroofed several residences. A
number of persons were Injured at
Plano, but none were killed. Consider
able damage was done by the storm
near Itasca and Hutchinson. Telegraph
and telephone wires are prostrated, and
it Is difficult to learn the extent of the
damage
Special telegrams received this morn
ing state that Northern Texas was swept
by a wind storm last night that at times
developed the proportions of a cyclone.
The worst damage reported so far oc
curred at Denton, where over one hun
dred houses were struck by the storm,
and all more or less damaged. It is be
lieved that the storm In the vicinity of
Denton has caused damage to the extent
of $100,000. Jack Simmons was fatally
Injured In the debris of a falling house.
It Is thought that great damage to
life and property has been done in the
territory west of Denton. The storm also
swept over the towns of Hutchinson and
Itasca, unroofing houses and wrecking
small buildings.
At Fort Worth, the power house of the
electrical railway was unroofed and traf
fic suspended.
On Harding" and Boaz streets six or
seven frame dwellings were blown down.
A brick school house In the Ninth ward
Wfis badly wrecked.
. -o
IN AND AROUND JACKSON, MISS.
The Stcrm Almost Equalled That of
Thirty Years. Ago.
Jackson, Miss., March 19.—A terrific
storm of wind and rain visited Jackson
about 6 o’clock this morning, lasting half
an hour and doing an immense amount
of damage to shade trees, fences, out
houses and barns Doss of life has been
reported, but the Interior to the west of
Jackson, where the storm Is thought to
have been most severe, has not been
heard from Telephones are down
A telegram from Madison Station, the
center of the great strawberry region
of Mississippi, ten miles north, says that
great damage was done there, houses
and barns being demolished, trees
laid flat and tomato cold frames blown
out of the ground.
The storm seems to have been general
over a scope of country twenty miles
wide from north to south, and Is known
to have extended to Raymond, fifteen
miles west, and across Pearl river to the
east of Jackson and ten miles down Into
Rankin, where visitors to this city re
port the same destruction of timber and
fences
Thirty years ago a storm passed over
this same track, but was more severe,
leveling everything before it
AT NATCHEZ, MISS.
The Storm Added to the Horror of the
Situation—River Continues to Rise.
New Orleans, La., March 19.—A spe
cial to the Daily States from Natchez,
Miss., says: The river at this point now
gtands 39,80 yn the gauge, which is 4.20
below tfie danger line, and rising at
the rate of half a foot dally. The levees
h4realx)uts Ire dfider the most careful
and rigid surveillance, and the general
belief is that they will be able to stand
fifty feet unless there are weak places
developed not apparent now. The con
sensus of opinion among river men Is
that we will not reach forty-eight feet
here unless there arg excessive local rains
A tremendous storm of wind And rail!
passed oyer this city at 5 o’clock this
morning, doing great damage to property
In Natchez and some in Concordia par
ish, but while it does not appear tq have
had the effect of damaging the levees
to any appreciable extent, It certainly
did add sorro water to the river.
The telegraph wires above the city
-were all prostrated, and we are cut off
from communication with the north.
The worst is yet to come in this locality.
THE DELTA SECTION'.
In Absolute Danger, Owing to the Ufi
usual High Water—Levees in Danger
New Orleans, La, March 19.—A spe
cial to the States from Vicksburg, Miss.,
6ays: The river situation for.the next
thirty days promises to be more than se
rious. There is a higher stage at Cairo
and Helena, the two main points of ob
servation, than since 1886, and by their
reported rainfalls in the last twenty-four
hours, botth wiil score extreme high
water marks yet. The pressure is going
to be excessive all along the levee lines.
It will first appear between Helena and
the mouth of the Arkansas. On that
reach the new levees have been put in
front of the White river basin since the
last high water, and the effect of this
is now to be tested. From there down
the levees have been raised and enlarged
greatly, and ought to hold unless the
flood is prolonged. Altogether it is the
most serious situation for the Delta sec
tions that has been experienced since
18S2.
----
FROM MINNESOTA.
Immense Volumes of Water Are Pour
ing Into the Mississippi River.
Minneapolis, Minn., March 19.—Rain
began falling again last night and con
tinues this morning. This with the
large body of snow, said to be twenty
two Inches on, the level, is causing an
immense flood of water to pour into the
Mississippi river, which is still ice
bound. Reports from North and South
Dakota say the same state of things
exists there. People living on low lands
adjacent to Red river and Jim river are
already deserting their homes. *
— ■■ U-- - —
AT ANNISTON.
Wind Accompanied by Rain—Many
Houses Levelled to the Ground.
Montgomery, Ala., March 19—A spe
cial to the Advertiser from Anniston,
Ala., says: A string wind, accom
panied by rain, did much damage in
this section today. Several houses were
blown down and some plate glass win
dows wrecked in this place. 'The great
est damage was done in the Eastaboga
community. The residence and every
house on the plantation of Rev. Daniel
Johnson were blown down. The store
of T. W. Ogletree and residences of Mrs.
Jackson and W. R. Bell were unroofed.
Mr. Bell had a fenant house, three large
barns and all his cut houses levelled to
the ground. No loss of life reported.
WITHIN TWO INCHES.
Of the Highest Point—Say You Can’t
Escape.
Helena, Ark., March 19.—'The river at
noon was within two inches cf the high
est water record here. The sun shone
today after one of the most prolonged
and heavy downpours of rain for many
years and conditions are more hopeful.
The levees In front and north of the city
are having the attention of the officers
of the city and the levee boards are be
ing raised and strengthened. Heavy
rains yesterday and last night have part
ly inundated a portion of the northern
suburbs of the city, but the water is now
fast receding.
The levees at .Modoc are still holding
and with the recent recruits to the al
ready large army of ievee workers, there
Is a bright chance of maintaining the
statu quo. The levees on the Missis
sippi side appear in good shape.
*~ —o-— —
IN LEE COUNTY, GEORGIA,
A Destructive Cyclone Prevailed, Doing
'Much Damage—Details Meagre.
Savannah, Ga., March 19.—An Albany,
Ga., special to ithe Morning News says:
A destructive cyclone prevailed in Lee
county this afternoon, but only meagre
reports have so far reached here of its
results.
At Leeburg the front of Salter’s store
was blown down, and a young man by
the name of Randall, who run out 03 it
fell, was caught under the debris and
badly injured.
Fences and trees were uprooted, and it
is believed the worst results were fblt
north of Leeburg.
DIRE RISTRESS
Comes From the Flooded District—Lives
Lost and Stock Drowned.
Gavin, Ark.. March 19.—For many miles
the country is flooded and the water is
up to the Iron Mountain tracks. Hun
dreds of section hands are striving to
keep it back with dirt bags. At every
station the negroes are gathering waiting
to be taken away, 'ilariy get on the truins
and are carried without pay.
The'list of fatalities is said to be long,
and probably will never be- known. 'Wil
liam Cartwright and ■William Cox, work
ing on Judge Hedges’ farm, at Rosebud
island, lost their lives Thursday by the
upsetting of SI dug-out. Jake Carty wras
drowned at Gavin Thursday night from
the same cause. Amanda Chapman, col
ored, Just arrived from below, reports
the death of six persons, whom she could
not name-. Charles Burkley also was
drowned near Gavin. He could not man
age a dug-out. Whites and negroes beg
for help from every train crew. A moun
tain of household goods are piled up from
every railroad elation. Houses along
the road are submerged to the roofs and
cattle standing in the fields with only
their heads above water. Many corpses
of hogs and cows are washed up by the
water.
PART OF A BRIiDGiE GONE.
Louisville, Ky., March 19.—A dispatch
from Wickllffe, Ky.. says that part of an
approach to the bridge over the Ohio, at
East Cairo, Ky., has been washed away,
delaying traffic on the Illinois Central,
More damage is expected. The river is
rising here, wi'h eighteen feet on the
falls. One and thlrty-elght-hundredths
inches of rain has fallen in the past
twenty-four hours.
GERMANY SUFFERS.
Berlin, March 19.—Severe winds and
hail storms prevailed throughout the
greater part of Germany last night, doing,
a great deal of damage In many places.
Several lives were lost and many
persons Injured. , .., ,
_ A f- .
1 AT CAIRO, ILL. _____
Cairo, 111., March 19.—The river here
rose four-tenths of a foot in twenty-four
hours, and thep rospect is that it will
go to high water mark, which is 52.2. The
citizens have Organized to be prepared
to meet any emergency and waten the
levees around the city.
A large area of wheat land has been
flooded in the neighborhood of Commer
cial Point in this county. Until the re
sult of the heavy rains are known, pre
dictions as to the extent of the rise are
impossible. Bird's Point Is entirely
under water and the Cotton Belt and the
Iron Mountain trains cannot enter Cairo.
The steamer Mary Morton arrived from
the lower river~this morning reporting
the levees intact from Osceola up, but
momentarily fearing a break. The Mor
ton rescued a large number of people and
stock.
o—
CUMBERLAND RIVER
Rising Rapidly and East Nashville
Under "Water.
Nashville, Teon., March 19.—The Cum
berland river is rising. Rain fell all day
yesterday, last nigh't and continued to
day.
There is prospect of the greatest flood'
on record. The highest recorded water
in the Cumberland river was in 1883.
when it registered 55 feet, 9 feet higher
than at present. The ou-tlook now is that
this mark will be exceeded. Much dam
age has already resulted from the over
flowed lowlands, and more will follow
when the flood increases.
Large section of East Nashville have
been under water for several days. The
river Is already climbing to the business
houses on Front street. Boats are now
anchored to the sidewalks, and the pros
pect is that the first floors of bu‘lding3
will be submerged.
Dispatches from the southern count!-a
of Tennessee and from northern Alabama
report thlrtv-slx hours of rainfall and
terrible floods In the region. Great dam
age has been done bridges and fenc \
Trains have stopped running On the
Nashville, Chab'.anooga and St. Louis
tallroad/
LEVEES GIVE WAT,
And Other Breaks Looked For—Four
Deaths Reported.
Memphis, Tenn , March 19.—The latest
break in the levee system In this district
occurred at 7 o'clock this evening, mar
Austins Miss., 100 miles south. Particu
lars are not available.
Reports from other points In that sec
tion indicate positive distrust of a great
deal of nhe svstein vn the Mississippi
side, and other breaks are expected to
occur at any moment.
All that money, engineering and labor
can do is being exerted, but the water
pressure Is very great. The break re
ported at Glendale, IMirs., las: night
proved incorrect, though tonight's break
is la that vicintty.
The Carruther.-ville, Mo., break occur
red about daylight yesterday morning,
and last nigh there was also a br:ak
in the town's second, or protection levee,
which flooded the lower part of the town.
No lives were lost there.so far as known.
The steamer City of Osceola arrived
from above this af ernoon, and reported
the towns of Ashp.rt and Gold Dust en
tirely Fubmerged. It brought sixty ref
ugees. whom It rescued from the water.
There were four additional oases of
drowning across from Memphis today,
two men and a woman and her infant.
AT UTTCIA, MISS.,
One Farmer Was Killed—School House
Lifted From Its Foundation.
Utica, Miss., March 19.—A cyclone
passed this place early this morning with
a southeasterly course, blowing down
several cabins and timber and fenc s,
killing J. O. Hill, a farmer, and injuring
his wife. A country Echool house was
lifted from its foundation and turned
around.
IN THESIXTH ROUND
Corbett Ruined Both Hands, Causing
Him to Lose the
Fight.
San Francisco, March 19—Jim Corbett
was about the city bright and early this
morning. At the Baldwin hotel he was
Joined by a party of friends. A friend
asked him how he felt.
“As well as any of the Corbetts,” the
ex-chainplon replied. "A few of my
Joints are twisted, but that don't amount
to anything. My people take it haj-der
than 1 do."
Jimmy Wakely came In just then and
Corbett introduced him.
Wakely wanted to know what Jim's
plans were, If he had any.
"I won’t make any move until Brady
arrives,” said he. "I see he is trying to t
get another match with Julian, but I
hardly think they will give me another
chance. I don’t care a snap about the
championship. Fitzsimmons can call
himself champion, and I suppose he is.
But this does not annoy me. What I
am after is another boittle.”
Other friends came in and extended
their sympathies. He showed them his
disabled hande, which were swollen
twice their normal size.
“That was ail done in the sixth round.”
"If they had not gone back on me I
would have finished him in the seventh.
That is why I had no steam."
The management of the chutes signed
a contract today with champion Fitz
simmons to appear there next Sunday
afternoon and evening.
THE PORTE WARNED.
That Servta Will Not Submit to Farther
Insults From Turkish Troops.
Constantinople, March 19.—nThe serious
attention of the porte has been called by
the Servian minister here to the state of
things existing in the province of Kos
sova, where the minister asserted, in
consequence of the mobilization of the
Turkish reserves, the Christians have be
come panic-stricken.
The minister called attention to the
recent attack of a Moslem upon the Aus
trian and Servian consuls in a cafe at
Usukub, in the province of that name.
Servia, he said, had maintained a per
fectly correct attitude during the pres
ent crisis and hoped that the porte would
put a stop to the existing situation, oth
erwise the consequences might be serious.
WILL. THEY SUCCEED?
Great Mass of Greeks Said to Be After
1 the Sultan.
Galatz, Roumania. March 19,—It Is re
ported In Greek circles here that the
Greeks In Constantinople, of whom 30,
000 are well armed, are plotting a revolt
against the Sultan’s government. The
report says that advantage is being
taken of the fact that apart from the
sult'an’s body guard there are few Turk
ish troops at Constantinople, all availa
ble forces having been sent to the Greek
frontier, and that hi the event of an
uprising at Constantinople it would be
impossible to recall troops from the
frontier fo make them effective against
a revolt. Recently a laTge body of
Greeks left here, ostensibly for Greece,
but it is now said that their real destina
tion was Constantinople.
TURKISH CONSUL^ RECALLED.
London, March 19.—According to a
dispatch from Lariska, the Turkish ion
suls In Thessaly have been authorized
by the porte to vacate their posts and re
turn to Constantinople should they deem
such action a&flBable.. This, the report,
says, Is in consequence of the consuls
having called the attention, of the porte
to the threatening attitude of the Greeks
I on the frontier.
_' -_ <fit
ONLY FOUR BUSINESS ITEMS
Occupied the Senate in Its Open
Session.
LIST OF CONFIRMATIONS
Disruption in Democratic Ranks and Heated
Debates Figured in the Proceedings
—Ten Contests Filed.
Washington, March 19.—The calendar
of business this morning contained only
four items. The notice by Mr. Turpie,
democrat, of Indiana, of his intention to
addrrsg the senate In favor of the pro
posed constitutional amendment to make
United States senators elective by the
people; the amendment itself which is
on the table and the Pacific railroad
bills which were reported yesterday. The
number of bills introduced in the senate
since Monday last, up to this morning
was 768.
The petition of John Edward Addicks,
contesting the right of Mr. Kenney to a
seat as senator from Delaware, was pre
sented by Mr, Burrows, republican, of
Michigan, and was referred to the com
mittee on privileges and elections.
A communication from the governor
and secretary of state of Oregon was
presented by Mr. Chandler, republican,
of New Hampshire, and red, setting out
in detail, facts to show that (the house
of representatives not having been reg
ularly organized) there has been no ses
sion of the state legislature since Feb
ruary. 1895. The object of the commu
nication. which was referred to the com
mit :ee on privileges and elections, was
to prove that the governor had the right
of appointment.
Rome fOO additional bills, most of them
pension bills, were introduced. Among
them was one by Mr. Chandler, populist,
of North Carolina, to establish a postal
telegraph system, and one by Mr. Chand
ler. republican, of New Hampshire, as
to first and second-class mail matter.
The resolution' offered yesterday by
Mr. Gear, republican, of Iowa, directing
the attorney general to furnish a copy of
the rsc- rd of proceedings In the foreclos
ure suit against the Union Pacific rail
road was taken up and agreed to.
A resolution was reported from the
committee on contingent expense and
agreed to, authorizing r'he committee on
finance to employ additional clerical as
sistance in its tariff work.
Gn motion of Mr. Davis, republican, of
Minnesota, acting chairman of the com
mittee on foreign relations, the senate,
apU*J!:,sO o’clock, proceeded to executive
bimness, and at 4 p. m. adjourned until
1 fund a y.
V CONFIRMATIONS.
The senate today confirmed the follow
ing nominations:
Charles U. Gordon, pos master at Chi
cago.
John Hoy, of the District of Columbia,
ambassador to Great Britain.
llprace Porter, of New York, ambassa
dor *o France. __
Henry White, of Rhode Island1, e^cre
ta'y of embassy at London.
Perry S. Heath, of Indiara, to be first
assistant pos.maister-general.
EXECUTIVE SESSION.
Senator Allen, populist, o£ Nebraska,
octupled'the first fiftet.n minutes of the
exHJutlve session scolding the democrats
and republicans for not organizing the
senate and proceeding to ithe transaction
of the public business.
Mr. Allen’s remarks were called out by
the failure to fill the existing vacancies
in the committees.
Mr. Chandler replied that the senator
from Nebraska knew very well that
neither the democrats n\*r the republi
cans had fhe power alone to organize the
.senate.
Mr; Davis, republican, of Minnesota,
after this little breeze had blown over,
addressed the senate In favor of 'the rat
ification of the treaty of arbitration with
Great Britain*.
IN THE HOUSE.
The first legislative day of the house
of representatives of the Fifty-fifth con
gress gave every Indication of an unus
ually lively session and also of an Inten
tion to make a record for extraordinary
rapid disposition of business. The out
bursts of partisan rancor In the course
of the day’s debate, recalled the palmy
days of the Fifty-first and Fifty-second
congresses, while .besides this not unex
pectqd differences of opinion as to ac
tion and policy there was ill-concealed
animosity between the two factions of the
democratic minority growing out of the
race for leadership of that party on the
floor. If today’s proceedings may be
taken as In anywise typical of the work
of the house the session will take rank
with the most tumultuous that ever
marked its history.
The ball was opened promptly upon as
sembly, In the presence of crowded gal
leries. Mr. Dlngley, from the commit
tee on ways and means, returned the
tariff bill, but with a recommendation
that it do pass, which, with the accom
panying report, was placed on the. cal
endar. In connection with this Mr. Mc
Mlllln called attention to what he termed
the “colossal injustice” done the minority
of the committee on ways and means, In
thus reporting the bill before they had
had time to prepare an expression of their
views. Consent was given for the mi
nority to file their views Monday.
This having been done, Mr. Dalzel),
republican, of Pennsylvania, presented
a resolution from the oommittee on rules
providing for the consideration of the
tariff bill. It called for general debate.
beginning on Monday next, and conclud
ing Thursday, the 26th Inst,, from 10 a. m.
until 11 p. m„ with a recess from 6 to 8.
Then consideration under the five minute
rule, the bill to be open for amendment
until 3 p. m., Wednesday, the 31st inst.,
when the voting on the amendments and
bill shall begin. This was advocated by
Messrs. Dalzell and Dlngley and opposed
by Messrs. McMIllln, Bland, democrat,
of Missouri, whose rising was the signal
for Applause by his democratic asso
ciates; Wheeler, democrat, of Alabama,
and Bailey, democrat, of Texas.
Mr. Bailey closed the debate for the op
position. He said that four years ago
a presidential election had been held,
turning on the tariff question. Congress
was then called in extraordinary session
to deal with the money question. Last
year the presidential election turned
upon *the m^ey question and congress
was now called to deal with the tariff
question.
“It .seems to me,” he said, "In view of
these facts that the authorities arc pot
ready or willing to execute the decrees
registered by the people In presidential
tlecffons.”
SpAaklfig for the minority, Mr. Bailey
said the passage of the bill would not be
antagonized by filibustering opposition.
."Knowing that we c«nnot prevent its
passage, we feel it to be the best policy
from our standpoint, that you should
pass it speedily. If it shall accomplish
what you claim for it, the president
should not be deprived of the benefits
that are to flow from It. If It should
not prove to be whet is anticipated for
it, the sopner it will be repealed and the
people be relieved of its unjust exactions.
X never was more confident of any event
of the future than X am that this bill
shall demonstarte the futility of the pre
tences on which it is based, and I firm
ly believe that you won’t live long enough
to get a patient hear ing from the people
on the absurd proposition that you can
make them prosperous by taxing them.
(Applause.)
"We challenge you to pass the bill, be
cause nothing can more certainly prove
to the people that you are unworthy of
the trust now reposed in you.” (Ap
plause.)
There was much cross-firing in this
discussion, a colloquy between Mr. Gros
venor and Mr. McMillan affording great
satisfaction to their respective partisans.
The resolution was agreed to by a vote
of 173 to 132. a party vote, save that Mr.
Howard, populist, of Alabama, voted in
the affirmative with the republicans.
This being settled. Mr. Henderson, re
publican. of Iowa, reported a resolution
providing for the passage of the appro
priation bills, which failed at the last
session of congress, in this order:
Ttie sundry civil, general deficiency,
agricultural and Indian.
The resolution allowed forty minutes
debate on each bill, the bills to be read
In ejrten.50. Preliminary to the discus
sion of this resolution. Messrs. McMiilln
and Sayers had a rather heated con
troversy over the matter of controlling
the time in opposition to the resolution.
In conclusion. Mr. Bayers suggested that
Mr. McMIllin would do better to keep
cool, to which Mr. MOMillin said: The
gentleman from Tennessee will keep cool
and the gentleman from Texas cannot
heat him
The resolution was adopted after an
hour's discussion—173 to 116, Messrs.
Pearson and Llnney, republicans, of
North Carolina, voting ugainst their po
litical associates who supported the reso
lution. The demand for a vote by yeas
and nays on this proposition brought out
a hot protest by Mr. Henderson, republi
can. of Iowa, who charged that It was a
violation of the agreement with Bally
and McMiilln that no dilatory motions
would be made. They denied making
any such promise, but the atmosphere
was quite heated in consequence of their
action.
At Mr. Cannon's urgent solicitation the
houBe remained in session un il a late
hour and passed the sundry civil and
general deficiency bills. Paving the agri
cultural and Indian bills to be disposed
of tomorrow.
CONGRESSIONAL CONTEST.
Mr. Mitchell, clerk of the house of rep
resentatives, has up to this time received
official notice of ten, contested election
cases. Some twenty more are expected,
but as the law requires the testimony to
accompany the case when filed, It may be
sometime before ishey are all in.
The cases filed are as follows:
W. F. Aldrich vs. Thomas S. Plowman,
Sixth Alabama district.
Gratton B. Crowe vs. Oscar M. Under
wood, Ninth Alabama district.
J. S. Willis v.s. L. Irving Hardy, First
Delaware district.
M. Godfrey Hunter vs. John R. Rhea,
Third Kentucky district.
Corn-llus J. Jones vs. Thomas C. Cach
ings, Third Mississippi district.
Eugene B. Travis vs. William L. Ward.
Sixteenth New York district.
H. S. Variderbrrg vs. Thos. H. Tongue,
First Oregon district.
IR. A. Wise Vs. William A. Young, Sec
ond Virginia district.
R. T. Thorp vs. Sydney P. Epes, Fourth
Virginia district.
John R. Brown vs. Claude A. Swan
son, Fifth Virginia district.
PEARL BRYAN’S UNBORN BABE
Whose Death Was Caused By Jackson
and Wulltng, Was a Bar
no Clemency.
Newport. Ky., March 19.—Scott Jack
son and Alonzo Walling will be hanged
in the jail yard at Newport tomorrow for
the murder of Pearl Bryan. Gov. Brad
ley this afternoon declined to Interfere,
and in answer to a call, the Frankfort
military, Company B, Second regiment,
came to Newport to guard the jail dur-'
ing the execution. There were fifty-five
men tn the detail.
Gov. Bradley's reasons for refusing to
reprieve the prisoners were in. effect that
according to the men's own confessions
they had been guilty of causing the death
of the unborn, but life-quickened babe,
If not of the mother, and, therefore, mer
ited the death penalty.
When the prisoners arrived at Newport
at 2 p. m., 5,096 people were around the
jail awaiting them. They were at once
put in separate cells. When told that
Gov. Bradley had refused to respite them
they evinced little concern, Jackson, only
remarking: "Oh, we knew it was all up
with him.”
The great throng that*, had gathered
expecting a glimpse of the prisoners
was given an opportunity by order of nhe j
t'heriff of viewing the gallows.
Dr George E. Wagner, whom the pris
oners in their confessions last night
claimed administered the drug that
caused Miss Bryan’s death in attemp'ing
a criminal operation, and to have cut oft
and carried away her head to prevent
Identification of the body, seems clearly
able to establish an alibi. 1
It has been announced seml-offlcially
that the execution will take place before
8 o’clock In, the morning In order to evade
the crowd.
TENNESSEE CENTENNIAL
Commissioner McCall Reports the Whole
State In Favor of a First-class Ex
hibit and Ready to Help.
Mr. H. G. McCall, member of the State
commission to get up an Alabama ex
hibit for the Tennessee exposi.lcm, was
a caller at the State Herald office last
night. His visit Is In the interest of the
exposition, and he will meet the execu
tive committee of the Press association
this morning. Mr. McCall says that he
has been in various portions cut the state,
and every section is highly In favor of
Alabama’s carrying off the banner at
Nashville. The failure of the state to do
her duty at several of tJhe expositions
of later years has stimulated the people
up to the fact that at this time no one
section can be depended upon to carry
the entire load alone, and unless all
show a disposition to help, the real worth
of such an exhibit will be In the main
lust, and the disposition now Is to "come
across.” The commissioner Is highly
pleased with'the prospects, and says Ala
bama will sweep the field on medals If
the present feeling continues.
PINGRDE OUSTED.
Danslng, 'Mich., March 19.—The su
preme court of Michigan today decided
that the office of mayor of Detroit became
vacant when S. H. Pingree took the oath
of olllceas governor oi Michigan on Jan-*
uarv 1. A mew election must be held t6
I elect a new mayor for Detroit.
IN THE WQRLD OT FINANCE
High Waters and Continued Rains
IN PURC GOODS
Delay in Fixii; prices of Lake Ore Affect Iron
J w
TradeCertain Extent—Slight In
c s&c in Demand for Goods.
New York, March 19.—Bradstreet's will
say tomorrow: Another week of irregular
trading bring-s an - lenient of disturbance
in the outlook for a fight over the new
tariff bill and the disappointment among
manufacturers of woolen goods, silks,
cu.l'ery and lines of various tariff sched
ules. Spring trade. in Jobbing lines is
over, collections are slow, and at many
points there is no change In d mond or
supply, except a request for cheaper
grades of goods. Threatened overflows
in the central and southern Mississippi
valleys have restricted the country order
trade, and rain and high waver have ex
ercised a similar Influence in the Ohio
valley and 1n south Atlantic and gulf
| states. The movement of general mer
chandise is also checked at the northwest
by unfavorable weather. The demand
for co:ton goods is disappointing, and
manufao-ureiH have moved some lines
only at concessions in price. Iron and
txeel Industries appear less likely to ex
pand in the near future. Practically
lower prices for Bessemer pig and for
billets seem to have been the result of
speculative over-purchasing at the late
revival In anticipation of an advance,
which has not shown Itself. Delay in .
fixing lake ore prices has also had an
influence. 'There is less demand for
American Iron and steel for export, par
ticularly for northern products.
At most of the larger centers the feel
ing of encouragement is stronger among
merchants a. the prospect of continued
improvement in trade, yet the increase in
volume of business in dry goods, gro
c ries. hats and clothing compared with
preceding weeks and like weeks In pre
vious years does not equal anticipation.
There is an Improvement in demand for
wool, for which juices are higher. East
ern wool manufactur rs report more in
quiry for goods, though the condition
of this industry still leaves much to bo
desired.
The total number of business failures
for the week Is 231, compared with 227
last week.
DUN’S REVIEW.
New York. March 19.—R. G. Dun & Co.
will Bay tomorrow in their weekly review
of trade: Though steadily increasing,
business is still much below' the volume
in former years of prosjaerky, and many
express disappointment. Yet there is
some gain every week, with more hands
at work and more mills in operation, and
the sure result, larger purchases for con
sumption, cannot be long delayed. In
some brandies it is felt already. There
Is larger distribution of finished products,
arid '.be demand for commercial loans
has sharply Increased, especially, in dry
goods and the Iron nnd steel branches.
The progress of the iron and steel In
dustry is hindered by uncertainty re
garding the cost of lake ores for the com
ing year, though the rejieated adjourn
ment of producers’ meetings is interpret- •
ed as evidence that an agreement will
be ultimately reached. It is reporcetl
that Norrie ore at $2.75 will be taken as
the basis, which would Imply about $2.35
for Mesabi ores, but until the questl m
has been settled, many Important trans
actions are deferred.
While there is no groat activity in fin
ished products, the demand steadily in
creases. Contracts for several great
buildings at Chicago are pending and
for a good many bridges and other rail
road works, and the demand for wire
nails anfl for wire does not abate, nor
the demand for black sheets required in
the tin plHte manufacture.
Although shipments of boots and shoes
are almost as large as many previous
years, It is announced that one or two
of Ihe largest works have closed for
want of orders.
At the same time many other concerns
are taking very large orders, it Is claimed
at prices below those generally quoted.
No change whatever appears in quota
tions of leather this week, and the Chi
cago market for hides fluctuates, al
though'the slight changes reported are
downward.
While manufacturers of cotton goods
are looking forward with much confi
dence, the present demand is not equal
to expectations, nor has the curtailment
in production of print cloths accom
plished the desired change in condition.
The buying of wool, mainly of a specula
tive character In expectation of new du
ties. continues remarkably large. Sales
at the three chief markets for the past
week were 10,891,900 pounds.
No great increase has yet appeared
in the demand for goods, although a few
more mills have found enough orders to
start, jrerhaps In part, anticipating a
future demand. The expectation of new
duties does not yet influence the goods
market as might be expected.
The volume of business indicated by
clearing house exchanges Is smaller than
last year. The average of dally ex
changes for the month is 3.3 per cent, less
than last year.
Failures for the week have been 210 in
the United States against 261 last year,
and 50 In Canada against 49 last year.
thFTurr
NEW ORLEANS RESITLTS.
New Orleans, March 19.—Rain spoiled
a fast track here today, making it slow,
and also affecting results, not a favorite
winning. Attendance, 3,000.
First Race—'Six furlongs. Lonely, 105
(Dorsey), 3 to 1, won; Fairfax second*
Charlie Christy third. Time. 1:18%.
Second Race—Selling, mile ond twenty
yards. Elkin, 101 (Camptbell), 4 to 1,
won; Senator Penrose second. Dawn
third. Time, 1:50.
Third Race—Selling, six furlongs. Gold
Top, 97 (A. Barrett), 5 to 1. won;Marle C.
second, Alkyris third. Time. 1:18)4.
Fourth Race—Handicap, seven fur
longs. Albert S., 94 (Dorsey), 17 to 1, won;
Imp. Paladin second, Gluck third. Time,
1:32%.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs, selling. Neck
lace, 99 (Higgins), 7 to 1. won; Mitt Boy
kin second, Stella B. third. Tims, 1:20)4.
Sixth Race- Selling, one mile. Jack the
Jew, 103 (J. HUB, 11 to 6. won. Toldlvar
second, Winslow third. Time, 1:47.
TWO BOYS DROWNED.
Chattanooga. Tensk. &f*noh 39.--A small
ski IT carrying three boys, was capped
in the Tennessee river, rear this city,
today, and two of the beys drowned.
They were John Davis, 16 years *td, and
James Edwards. 15 years old. The river
in very high and the current dangerous.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23 - ' BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, MARCH 21, 1897.-TWELVE PAGES. NUMBER 54
INTERNATIONAL^ QUESTION
Why Should the United States
Recognize
THE CRETAN BLOCKADE?
Text of the Official Notice to Greece Dissected
and Discussed at Lenth—A One
Sided Paper.
Lond'cn, iManch 20.—(Copyright 1897 by
the Sun Printing and Publishing Associa
tion.)—Why should not -he government
of tht United States refuse to recognize
the blockade of Crete? The terms of the
official notice of the blockade which were
Issued by the British government In Lon
don Cod ay are a direct violation of the
laws of nations. The noclce directs: The
ships of the six powers or neutral powers
may enter Into the ports occupied by the
powers and land t'heir merchandise, but
only if it is not for the Greek troops on
ithe Island. These ships may be visited
by other ships otf the International fleets.
If any ship or offlceT of the blockading
flee: undertakes to enforce these regula
tions against a vessel carrying the Amer
ican flag It will bean act of war against
the United States. There can be little
doubt about the correctness of this view.
Sir Walter Phillimore, who is a strong
authority upon International law, thus
puts the case of rights even of British
cl'.lztns:
"One should know whether the govern
ment has consulted its legal advisers as
to certain eventualities which are not
unlikely to follow upon this so-called
blockade of Crete. Suppose that a Brit
ish ship, seeing a chance of doing a good
trade in provisions, sails for a port in
Crete. She will be perfectly In her legal
rights, and it will be illegal to stop her.
We are not at war with Greece or Crete;
so it will not be a case of trading with
an enemy, and nothing short of an ao: of
parliament can take away the right of
any British subject to goto or trade with
Crete. Suppose this ship was stopped
and turned back. There will be an irre
sistible claim far damages at the suit
of the sufferers against the captain of
the British man-of-war. Suppose her
frigate had sunk her. The damage will
he greater. Suppose one of her crew Is
drowned. I see no defense to an indict
ment for murder.
"The rights of an American vessel
would, of course, be stronger. Secretary
Sherman will receive today from Mr.
Pauncefste, or r.hrough the Am ricin em
bassy here, a formal notice of the block
ade from Lord Salisbury. Every Ameri
can in London is anxious to know what
his answer will be. It is not only a
splendid opportunity to make use of the
tremendous nr oral influeno? which a dec
laration of the American view of the
eastern policy of the great powers, but
it Is of genuine practical Importance as
well. It is the avowed purpose of the
six powers to starve out the Greek troops
in Crete. No account is made of the in
cidental starvation of the native popula
tion. Thsre is food enough now In the
interior of the island to last several
weeks. It is entirely within the rights
of the people of New York, for Instance,
to send a carg*;i of supplies to he beleag
uered Inhabitants. Is the administration
at Washington ready to enforce that
right?"
A subject which has disturbed a large
class of Englishmen this week, much
more than the crisis In the east, is a deci
sion of the full court of the queen's
bench, to the effect that a betting ring at
a race track Is "a place" within the
meaning of the anti-gambling law of 1853.
This is really a serious matter compared
with which such trifles as the blockade
of Crete or the impending war between
Greece and Turkey are not to.be con
sidered. Nearly nil the newspapers of
England condemn the monstrous decision
of the appeal court or rather the law
which It has made. It means a death
blow to turf betting in England and as
this Is one of the most sacred institu
tions of this country, the great popular
uprising of the past few days Is by no
means surprising. It must be admitted
that the court had no choice in the mat
ter. Its decision was pronounced by
Sir Henry Hawkins, who is one of the
leading spirits of the Jockey club, and
who is often described as the "sporting
judge.”
It would have been absurd, as he him
self reluctantly declared from the bench,
to rule that a betting enclosure at a race
track was not “a place," but England is
speaking almost as with one voice In
the matter. The Pall Mall Gazette in a
patriotic, soul-stirring leader on the sub
ject, points out the dreadful conse
quences of the court’s action. Bookmak
ers and their clients. It says, are to be de
prived of the guarantees implied by de
posits, and acknowledgements and are
to be reduced to betting on the nod, withl
all Its temptations to repudiation and
evasion of settlement. It is the old
story of legislation attempting and sig
nally failing to regulate morality. The
law, as declared by the decision. Is down
right nonsense. It must, of course, be
amended.
There is no doubt about the public re
sponse to this appeal. England may be
Indifferent to the slaughter of a few
thousand Armenians or to the shelling
of Christian nuns by British ships, but
a grievance such as this last must and
will be wiped out. The storm of public
protest Is so great that It has frightened
the anti-gambling league, which was the
plaintiff in the case which caused the
decision. Its secretary has hastened to
avert the threatened doom of himself and
his associates by writing to the Pall
Mall Gazette that the editor "is quite
mistaken in supposing that any legal or
legislative aim of ours have ever been
made to sweep away betting altogether.
All we ever dreamed of attempting was
the suppression of betting as a trade, to
which nine-tenths of the evils of betting
are traceable."
There is little doubt that some amend
ment of the act of 1853 which will enable
Englishmen once more to bet on the
derby without running the risk of the
loser repudiating his losses, will be speed
ily introduced in parliament. Perhaps
it will be allowed to pass by unanimous
consent.
Some very mean men have got to work,
in connection with Queen Victoria’s
forthcoming so-called diamond Jubilee
and they are having a very good time,
despite the denunciations of people who
think they have a monopoly of all the
virtues. The sinners on this oceasion
are the owners of house property In the
poorer quarters along the route of the
royal procession on June 22. This class
of property is almost Invariably let on
weekly or monthly tenance, but the com
mon people, obvious of their fjrall tenure
have been letting their windows at prices
in which In every case would more than
pay rent for a whole year. This has
exceedingly grieved the owners, who,
fearing the poor tenants will be farmed
by such transient prosperity And perhaps
take to drlnlp and thus bring discredit on.
the Jubilee, have proceeded sorrowfully,
but firmly to give all their tenants notice
to quit and out they will have to go long
before the jubilee fltiy In order to make
room for their betters. It Is claimed for
the owners, however, that they cannot
be wholly vile for in many cases they
have graciously permitted their tenants
to remain on condition that they abandon
their sordid money making schemes and
give up possession of the premises for a
week before and a week after Jubilee
day. What all this means to the owners
may be judged from a single instance,
where a house let to a monthly tenant
at an annual rent of $300 was let by the
tenant for Jubilee day for $400. but the
owner stepped in, gave the tenant no
tice to quit, and now offers the house for
the day for $1,000.
Rev. Dr. John Watson, otherwise "In
dian Mao Daren,” is likely to soon be
in hot water. Long before he went on
his lecturing tour of the United States,
growls were heard from Scotland as to
his alleged unorthodox doctrines and
general worldliness. These mutterings
have almost deepened into a roar since
the publication of his Iasi book, which in
the opinion of many worthy. If narrow
minded Presbyterians, is distinctly Uni
tarian in its teachings, if not downright
heretical. Above and beyond specific
offences, however, the dissentients ob
ject to a minister of the Presbyterian
church engaging in the sinful work of
writing novels and they propose to ask
the offender to give explanations and ex
press contrition at a synod convened to
meet at Sunderland at the end of April.
' If the attention of the European world
was not absorbed by the threatened
march of great events, popular interest
would be directed in a large measure to
the astounding revelations which are be
ing made this week in the criminal courts
of Hungary. A dozen women are on
trial in one town for poisoning their hus
bands, and it is freely admitted that
their’s are only typical cases which Illus
trate what is almost a natural custom
in the country districts of that region.
Husband-poisoning, it was cooly an
nounced in court, is as common a calling
as midwifery, and the public prosecutor
declared that he only proceeded with
these few cases because the culprits had
confessed, and desired to break up the
practice. A trial In Vienna, which ended
in a sentence of death, yesterday, shows
what an important part arsenic plays In
the domestic economy of the inhabitants
of Syria. (A peasant named Sehmille
foer began shortly after his marriage in
1891 to have Intimate relations with a ser
vant named Marie Penisipp. with whose
assistance he poisoned his wife by mixing
arsenic in her food. He married his par
amour, and on her foster sister. Kather
ir.a Millek, then only 15 years old. ent r
ing his service In 189:5, he also became in
timate with her. and murdered his second
wife as. he did the first, by sprinkling
arsenic over pices of meat in her pla'e,
which, while she was away, were turned
over in order that she might not see the
powder on her return to the table. Two
children asked their mother for more
meat, and as she gave it to them from
her own plate, the father had to sit by
and see his children eat poison. The
children recovered, but the mother died.
Suspicion being aroused, an exhumation
eif the body of the first wife took place,
and, speaking of it in court, a chemist
made the remark that all the village cem
eteries in. Styria were full of arse-nic.
SERIOUS CHARGES
Against Naval Commander Dennis W.
Mullan to Be Investigated by
a Court of Inquiry.
Washington, March 20,—Humors which
recently cached the navy department af
fecting Commander Dennis W. Mullan,
dausing his detachment ns commandant
of the Pensacola navy yard several weeks
ago, are to be investigated and for that
purpose a court of inquiry, of which
Capt. Norman S. Farquhar is the sole
member and assistant judge advocate,
Gen. Charles II. Louehhclmer, U. S. M.
C„ is judge advocate, has been ordered
from Washington to meet at the Pensa
cola navy yard next Thursday, 2!ith. Thj
precise nature of the reports is not di
vulged. but they arc said to relate to oc
currences while the officer commanded
the yard during the past year, which
would seriously affect his standing, if
verified.
Commander Mullan was one of the
heroes of the Samoan disaster, in March,
1SS9, when three United States vessels,
the Trenton, Vandalla and Nlpsle, and
two German gunboats were forced upon
the beach and ground to pieces. He was
in command of the Nlpsic and hy a cu
rious coincidence Captain Farquchar, who
will now investigate the rumors con
cerning him, commanded the flagship
Trenton at the time.
NEW DIRECTORY
Issued By the Maloney Directory Com
pany, a Thing of Beauty—Birming
ham’s Population, Etc.
The new directory for 1897 has been
issued, and is now being distributed by
the Maloney Directory company. The
book is the handsomest of its kind ever
issued here, and is most complete in
every particular.
The most interesting revelation Is the
fact that Birmingham has a population
of 66,277, exclusive of Bessemer and Pratt
City. With these two suburbs included,
the population nearly reaches 76,000.
This total is secured on an estimate of
an average of three and one-eighth pop
ulation to each name of the white people
and three and a quarter to the colored.
The 66,277 persons are included in the
territory from Red mountain to North
Birmingham and from Powderly to East
Lake, and indicates an Increase of nearly
4,000 during the past year.
In the preface is given the names of
the officers of United States government
from president down; the state, county
and city governments are treated in a
like manner, with the names of all the
fliemen, police officers, police commis
sioners, beard of education, fire alarm
boxes, and city and ward boundaries.
The schools and names of the teachers
and principals of each school In the coun
ty; the churches, with names of pastors,
location and hours of service.
The commissioned and non-commis
sioned members of the military com
panies are given, as well as the dis
tances from this city to each station on
the railroad lines entering Birmingham.
The names of the white population are
given in the first part of the book, while
the latter part is devoted to the colored
people .only. Everything is arranged
strictly In alphabetical order.
The street directory, with intersecting
crossings, is very complete. It is a hand
some volume, and a credit not only to Its
publishers and printers, but to the pub
lic at large. It contains a world of In
formation never before seen in local di
rectories.
BROKE HER SHAFT.
Key West, Fla., March 20.—The Plant
Line steamer Mascotte, Captain Allen,
from Tam_pa, Fla^ for Havana, has ar
rived here with a broCee shaft. It Is
protteible that the company's agents will
arrange for a transfer of passengers and
mails to another steamer, to be forwarded
to destination.
NATIONAL CAPITAL GOSSIP
Extraordinary Week’s Work in
the Lower House.
. PIE HUNTERS ANNOUNCED
Secretary Alger Acts Promptly in Rendering
Aid in Protecting Levees—Grover
Paid Up in Full to Date.
Washington, March 20.—The first week
of the extraordinary session of the Fifty
flf.h congress closed with today's session
olf the house of representatives. The rec
ord made is extraordinary. The tariff
bill has been, reported, and an order reg
ulating its discussion adopted. Four ap
propriation bills, which failed to become
laws in the Fifty-fourth congress, nec
essary for the prosecution of important
parts of the public service, carrying a to
' tal of over $72,000,000, have been passed
with the exception of one paragtaph, as
they were finally agreed upon by the
last house. Two of these, the agricultur
al and Indian, were considered and dis
posed of today. The former, appropriat
ing $3,182,050, was passed, as has been the
sundry civil and general deficiency bills
yesterday, without change. The time al
lowed for debate on this bill permitted
Mr. Champ Clark, democrat, of Missouri;
to make n characteristic speech upon the
subject of i'.he rules. He withdrew all
previous criticisms of the s nate and
thanked God that It still remained a de
liberative assembly. The action of the
house today and yesterday he termed the
mo®: amazing and astounding perform
ance ever witnessed on, the continent.
One feature of the Indian bill provoked
much opposition, and was finally stricken
out by unanimous consent before the bill
was passed. Tills was the paragraph
opening the gilsonite or asphalt lands in
the Uncompahgre rest rva Ion, Utah, to
entry under the mineral laws, which the
senate had added to the bill.
Several resolutions were offered and
agreed to. make appropriations for
mileage, stationery and pay of session
employes immediately available.
At 3:55 o’clock the house adjourned
until Monday aC 10 a. m.. when the de
bate of the tariff bill will begin.
A FEW PIE-HUNTERS.
List of Applicants for Coll Ctors of Cus
toms Mad? Public.
Washington, March 20.—Among the ap
plications for positions under the treas
ury department made public r.oday were
the following:
J. Day Hassard, of Eustis, Fla., to be
deputy auditor for state and other de
partments.
To be collectors of customs:
H. F. Campbell, of El Paso, Tex., at
El Paso.
Moses Dielon, of El Paso, Tex., at El
Paso.
W. W. Ache-on, of Belieview, Fla., ait
Jacksonville, Fla.
J. A. Price, Dalton. Ga., a: Atlanta.
T. J. Wilson, of Clifton Forg'e, Va., at
Lynchburg.
B. IE. Bweet, of Pembroke, Va., at
Lynchburg.
ALGER ACTS PROMPTLY.
And Orders Government Officers to Re
port at Cairo, 111., at Once.
Washington, March 20.—Secretary Al
ger acted promptly today to relieve the
flood sufferers of the Mississippi valley by
the use of vessels belonging to the war
department. Senator Cullom, of Illinois,
presented the secretary with an appeal
this morning from the mayor of Cairo,
111., for governmental assistance to save
life and property. Secretary Alger at
once telegraphed Major Handy, the en
gineer in charge of river work at St.
Louis, and Col. Gillespie, the president of
the Mississippi river commission, direct
ing them to have all government boats
sent to Cairo and to confer with the
mayor, board of trade and Circuit Judge
Roberts as to the measures to be taken
for relief.
IT IS A CANARD.
Washington, March 20.—The attention
of the department of agriculture has
been drawn to a publication in Liver
pool of alleged official Information rela
tive to mill takings from the cotton crop
of 189G. Mr. Henry A. Robinson, stat
istician of the department, thinks it well
for the public to know that no official in
formation of the nature claimed has
been given out. The nature and state of
the work at the time of such publication
also render it impossible that the asser
tions contained therein could have had
any substantial foundation or any veri
fication of value either public or private.
In making this disclaimer Mr. Robinson
does not wish to be understood as deny
ing or affirming any of the Liverpool
statements.
GROVER PAID UP IN FULL.
Washington, March 20.—The treasury
department closed up with its accounts
with Mr. Grover Cleveland today. Sec
retary Gage signed a warrant in favor of
Mr. Cleveland for $277.78, the balance due
him on his salary as president, and it
will be mailed him to Princeton, N. J„
on Monday. This balance completes the
$200,000 to which Mr. Cleveland was en
titled for his four years services.
QUALIFIED FOR SERVICE,
Washington, March 20.—The new con
sul general at London, Mr. McK Osborne,
is the first of the foreign appointees of
the administration to enter upon his
work. He took the oath of office at the
state department today and Immediately
began to accumulate the knowledge of
his new office in the hope of being able
to relieve Consul General Collins at the
earliest possible moment. As soon as
he can be made familiar with the routine
he will leave for London.
A FINE SHOWING
Made by Spanish Troops in Cuba, Ac
cording to Their Reports.
Havana, March 20.—Advices received
here today say that the rebels made an
attack upon the town of Cano, near Man
nillo, on March 15, and sacked several
houses. The garrison made a stubborn
fight and finally repulsed the rebels, who
left two of their dead behind them. The
garrison had one officer and three pri
vates wounded.
According to data furnished by the
chief of the military staff here a sum
mary of the operations of the troops from
March 10 to 19, shows that 423 rebels
have been killed and 8 taken prlsonera.
Within the same period the Spanish
troops have lost 3 officers and 42 privates
killed and J6 officers and 267 privates
Wouiided. l£ Is also shoWn'tnat between
the dates named 188 w»b«.4s have sur
rendered and 164 rifle3, Wi machetes and
519 horses have been captured by the
troops.
DIED Of STRANGULATION
Scott Jackson and Alonzo Wall
ing Hanged Until Dead.
PEARL BRYAN AVENGED
Hope Held Out for Walling Through Jackson's
Confessions to the Very Last, but Ex
ecutive Clemency Was Denied
Cincinnati, March 20.—The once promis
ing lives of Scott Jackson and Alonzo
Wailing, the young dental students, paid
the penalty today on the gallows for
the murder of the sweet-faced country
girl, Pearl Bryan, of Green Castle, Ind.,
and the extinguishing at the same time
of the tiny spark of life that had driven
her to desperation through fear of open
shame. The scene was Fort Thomas
and the date Feb. 1 1S96. The victim was
decapitated to prevent identification and
the head has never been located. The
arrests, trials, "confessions” and general
progress of the awful sequel of today
have been largely cf the spectacular or
der, especially the closing hours of the
tragedy this morning in Newport, Ky.
Nearly ail forenoon Walling’s fate
seemed swaying in the balance and the
9,090 people, with a plentiful sprinkling
of militia acting as guards, waited with
interest at highest tension for the spring
of the fatal trap or the announcement
of the clemency extended by Gov. Brad
ley.
Walling went to sleep at 1 o’clock this
morning and slumbered until 6 o’clock.
Jackson slept little. From that early
hour until the final announcement that
both must hang at 11:30, thep risoners sat
at the windows of the Jail, facing the
crowded court house yard, with every
appearance of unconcern. On the gal
lows n.. Utter was deserted by the "game
ncss" that has marked their conduct ever
since they first posed before the public
In the celebrated tragedy.
At 11:40 the double trap was sprung
and they swung in mid-air twenty min
lites before the horrible work of strangu
lation was completed.
The hour originally set was 7 o'clock,
but almost as the start was made for the
gallows Jackson made another "confes
sion" in which he said Walling was not
guilty of “wilful murder.”
Again the governor was appealed to at
Frankfort by wire, Jackson himself tel
egraphing: "Walling is not guilty of
this crime, but I am.”
Finally Gov. Bradley, after patient in
vestigation of Jackson's tardy attempt
to save his comrade, including a lung
distance telephone consultation with
Judge Helm, the trial judge, and the at
torneys in the case, sealed anew the doom
of both by declaring against further de
lay. Jackson is said to have left still
: nother written confession to be pub
lished or not as his friends may sec fit.
The one of Thursday, diabolically trying
to.shift a part of the crime on an inno
cent man, both Jackson and Walling ac
knowledged this morning to be a fak«.
As there was objection to the receiving
of the body of Jackson for burial In the
Green Castle cemetery, it was shipped
this evening over the Big Four to his
former home at Winisoc, Me.
Walling’s body was taken to Hamilton,
Qu by his family for burial.
WORST IS NOT YET OVER.
Government Warnings Prove Terribly
True in Their Dire Results—Rivers
Continue to Rise and Land Dis
appears and Bridges Gone.
St. Louis, March 20..—The warning sent
out by the government signal service
yesterday that the Mississippi river and
all its tributaries would continue to rise
has been fulfilled to the letter. The
communications with the flooded section
has become difficult, but dispatches re
ef ived from widely separated points
show that all have suffered alike. It is
estimated that a section of country with
area equal to that of the state of Missouri
Is now under water and that the worst
is not over. Advices from Paducah,
Memphis, Cairo and Helena show that
the region beginning north of New Mad
rid, Mo., west, to’and including the val
leys of the St. Francis, the White and
the Arkansas rivers in Arkansas; east In;
Kentucky and Tennessee, the valleys of
the Tennessee, the Cache, the Obion and
the Yazoo rivers, and south to the l|l
river are under water. The intervening
ranges of hills and high ground are the
only places of refuge. The dispatches
received here tell but one story—lives
k.st, stock drowned and a country deso
lated.
At Cairo, 111., today the river reached
6Q.B feet and rising slowly, which Is but
one foot of the high record of 1883. All
the country south of there to Memphis is
submerged. A relief steamer from the
flat below Bird’s Point brought in four
families.
It is reported that a flatboat contain
ing a number of people was sunk at Is
land No. 10.
All the cotton fields in the valley of
Forked Deer river, in Tennessee, are un
der water. The Memphis Relief associa
tion has five boats at work. These boa;s
go to points that are some twenty miles
from streams navigable in ordinary
stages of water.
The unanimous opinion. o.f St. Louis
river men is that conditons must become
worse before there can be permanent re
lief. They say that numerous breaks in
the lower levets are really blessings, as
they are natural outlets for the deluge
that is certain to come from the melting
HnoWs of the north.
IN NEBRASKA.
The Thaw-out .Has Begun—Railroads
■ and Bridges Being Swept Away.
Omaha, Neb., March 20.—The general
thaw of the last week has started the
Ice In the Logan and Elkhoro rivers, and'
towns along their banks have been
threatened wlt'h floods, but only two< of
any importance have been seriously dam
aged. Pendor, on the Logan river, Is to
night partly submerged, and Norfolk, the
sugar beet factory city of Madison coun
ty, Is In several feet of water. While the
Missouri river Is very high, the danger
point has not been reached.
jU Norfolk thousands of dollars worth
of damage fcas been done, all the business
portion of the city Is under from three to
six feet of water. The newspaper presses
in the city are under four feet of water
and publication Is suspended. The Ox
nard hotel Is now completely surrounded
bv Witter. Channels have been washed
out through the Chicago, St. Paul and
Minneapolis and Orpaha railroad yards
and freight cars are badly piled up.
At Elk Point, S. D.. the Missouri river
has broken up and risen ten feet in the
I
last tan hours. The Sioux river has risen
fourteen feet in the last thirty-four h urs.
The expanse of water is four miles wide.
Many families have been driven from
their homes. The Milwaukee track is
washed out for about 3,000 feet and its
span bridge across the Sioux river is
gone.
Within twenty-four hours the Big Sioux
has risen to such a height at Flandreau,
S. D., that the highest bridges in the
county are Impassable. The river Is now
rising at the rate of an Inch every fifteen
minutes.
TWO STORM VICTIMS.
Montgomery. Ala., March 20.—At
Mountain Creek, a station a few miles
north of Montgomery, on the Louisville
and Nashville road, yesterday, two
daughters, aged 13 and 16, of James H.
Norrell, were instantly killed by a fall
ing tree. The older girl was at the spring
when the storm came up and her sisier
started to her with an umbrella. Just
as they met the tree was blown down,
crushing them to death.
AT HL'LENA, ARK.,
Situation More Serious—Levee at Rescue
Has Gone.
Helena, Ark., March 20.—The river sit
uation here this morning is no better; in
fact, it looks mjre serious and work is
going night and day raising the levees
from one end of the city to the other.
The water is coming in the north suburbs
where It has been expected for several
days, but as it only affects a portion of
the town occupied by small cabins prin
cipally no danger to the city proper is
apprehended.
The Yazoo & Mississippi Valley rairoad
people are at work with a hundred men
today on their tracks which run on the
top of the levee almost, the entire river
frqpt.
The Kate Adams brought up a dozen
tainilles this morning from the over
flowed district below; among them C. W.
Alfray, who has been living at Modoc
until within a few days when he moved
over to Rescue, only to get into it worse
than ever, the levee breaking at Rescue
last night. He left there this morning at
5 o’clock and at that time the break was
200 feet wide and growing all the time.
Major Dabney is there with quarter
beats ami the Ralph lias also gone down
and will look after the rescuing of the
people and the stock. This break will
undoubtedly relieve us here some, hut
at the present time there has been no
perceptible change, the river rising very
slowly. The water has gone over the
levee below Modoc and Is flooding the
White river bottoms. The people down
there have all gotten out of the way and
no loss of life is expected. It was re
ported this morning that the levee had
broken at O. K. twelve miles above, but
was later refuted.
■■ ■ o
AT VICKSBURG
Weather Is Fine and Favorable to the
Levees—Water Rising.
Vicksburg, Miss., March 20.—The weath
er this morning Is very favorable to the
permanency of the levees, being calm,
warm and bright. Tools and materials
are being rushed forward on every train
to the levees In Mississippi. The Missis
sippi A'alley route reports all the levees
intact today. There is no news from the
Lea levees. The river rose eight-tenths
here in the past twenty-four hours. This
is an abnormal rise at this stage of water
and it is now 44.2. The Yazoo banks now
full is largely responsible.
AT NASHVILLE.
Th? Cumb;rhind Enjoys :he Highest
Rise In Six Years.
Nashville, Tenn., March 20.—The recent
rains have Hooded this city and surround
ing country, and much damage will be
the result. The Cumberland river is 49.9
feet on the gauge, and stationary now.
This Is the highest rise in six years; a
portion of the business section _f the ci y
is inundated, and much loss will be the
result. Hundreds of people in the cut
ton lands have been forced from their
homes, and distress rdgns in the business
and affected districts.
The Nashville, Cha. tanooga and St.
Louis railway from Nashville to Mem
phis is under several feet of water be
tiv. n Camden and Johns'nville, Tenn.
and trains have been discontinued for the
present. The Louisville und Nashville
and Chattanooga divisions of the Nash
ville, Chattanooga and St. Louis are still
open.
TREASURY STATEMENT.
Washington, D. C., March 20.—The fol
lowing is a statement the condition
of the United States treasury on the 2ut'h
of March, 1897:
Cash in the treasury; Gold coin, $147.
156,615; g&ld bullion, $41,828,028; total,
$188,984,64!. Net outstanding gold certifi
cates. $37,498,779. Standard silver dollars,
$382,603,020; silver bullion, $S21,566; total,
$383,424,596.
Net outstanding silver certificates, $364,
447,208.
Standard silver dollars of 1890. $10,136,
048. Silver bullion of 1890, (cost) $107,150,
232.25; total, $117,286,280.25.
Less outstanding treasury notes, $117,
en s.280.
United States notes, $93,604,295.
Net outstanding currency certificates,
$74,430,000.
Treasury notes of 1890, $26,859,335; na
tional bank notes, $13,084,098; fractional
silver coin, $15,879,724.91. Fractional cur
rency, $82.37; miner coin. $1,282,885.91; de
posits in national banks, $16,509,682.39;
bonds and interest paid, $614,794.36; total,
$74,230,607.94.
Less national bank 5 per cent, fund,
$8,160,688; outstanding checks and drafts,
$6,353,871.99; disbursing officers’ balances,
$27,824,628.94; postoffice department ac
counts, $3,732,194.55; miscellaneous items,
$2,596,814.19; total, $48,668,098.11. Available
cash balances Including gold reserve,
$217,200,053.
THE TURF;
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, La., March 20.—Fine
weather, rather too warm In the sun,
drew out 5,000 people to the race course
today. The sport was of a lively char
acter with seven races run, of which fa
vorites won three. P. Dunne, the Crescent
City Derby colt, won a mile handicap in
1:43% cleverly with 110 pounds.-Track dry
but slow.
First Race—Seven furlongs: Jake Zim
merman, 108, (R. Williams) 2 to 5, won;
Waidine, second; Belle of Killarney. third.
.Time, 1:31%.
Second Race—Half mile, 2-year olds:
John Connor, 96, (Combs) 8 to 1, won; Lil
lian Russell, second; Lupla, third. Time,
.60.
Third Race—Mile and a quarter: Ixion,
112, (Overton) 5 to 1, won; Little Tom, sec
ond; Newhouse, third. Time 2:11%.
Fourth Race—Handicap, one rnlle: P.
Dunne, 110, (Beauchamp) 4 to 6, won;
Bridgeton, second; Irish Lady, third,
time, f:43%.
Fifth Race—Seven furlongs: Alkyrls,
104, (T. Burns.) 7 to 6, won; Styx, second;
Proverb, third. Time, 1:30.
Sixth Race—Six furlongs: Winslow, 108,
(L. Soden) 9 to 1, won; Stark, second; Wa
terman. third. Time, 1:17. „ j
Seventh Raoe—One mf!e: >6(1711001, 1W),
(Oaywood) 3 to 1, won; Laura Cotta, sec
ond; Davezac, third. Time, 1:44.
GADSDEN COURT SENSATION
_ »
Two Prominent Men Charged
With Bribing
MEN FOR JT. CORPORATION
-?*—*—
With the View Cheating the Blind Goddess
O
—TenjJ sec & Coosa Rail
oad Case Up.
■c -
Gadsder^j* .larCh 20.—(Special.)—Quite a.
sensation;*: curred t day in the city court
in the oasd of Danforth & Armstrong vs.
Tennessee and Coosa railroad. The mat
ter came up by the attorneys. Judge W.
M. Richardson, of Huntsville J. C. Brad
ford, of Nashville, A. G. Smith, of Bir
mingham, and Amos Godhue, of Gads
den, for defendant, who moved to dis
miss the case on the ground that C. E.'
Danforth, of Chattanooga, Tenn., the
plaintiff. In connection with one Dr. D.!
H. Baker, of Gadsden, had corruptly in
fluenced the jury, In rendering a verdict
for 1100,000 at the October term of 1894,
agalns. the defendant. (The contract be
tween Danforth ar.d Baker, by which
Baker was guaranteed th payment of
$15,000 for successfully fixing the juiy
was in evidence, with twenty 1 tiers
signed by Baker and Danforth, which
disclosed what Judge Disque, the presid
ing Judge, denounced as the "most hor
rible state of affSIrs and diabolical con
spiracy that hnd ever occurred in any
court In Alabama." The letter-, part of
which were written by Danforth and part
by Baker, disclosed the fact that Dan
forth had paid Baker money, which the
latter had used in fixing ond corrupting
the jury. They also disclosed that there
was in existence at the present time
a contrac. to continue former corrupt
practices. Th. letters also showed that
the conspirators were so bold and daring
a“ to contemplate the approaching of the
supreme court of .he state.
After a full and elaborate argument of
counsel for both sides. Judge Disque
stated that the matter was of such "grave
importance and magnitude, involving as
it did the purity of Justice," that he
deemed it his imperative duty to take
the motion to dismiss the case under ad
visement before rendering any decision
on the same, but the offense to corrupt
the Jury was so clearly proven I hat he
ordered the instant arrest of C. K. Dan
forth and D. H. Baker, requiring them
each to give $1,000 bond to a'ppear before
the next grand Jury of Etowah county,
to answer to an indictment for corrupt
ly influencing the jury.
The arrest of Danforth and Baker
created a profound sensation in the town
and the honest, good people of Dads den
and Etowah county are anxious for the
sake of t'he good name of the county to
have the matter ferreted out and see
that the guilty parties are punished ta
the fullest extent of the law.
TOO MUCH PUGILISM.
Two Men Who Had Donned the Gloves
Succeed in Finding Early Graves
as a Result.
Philadelphia, Pa., March 20.—East
night in a boxing bout at the Tenth Ward
Democratic club, Samuel S. Perry struck
Edward Gibbons a blow near the heart,
similar to the one with which Fitzsim
mons defeated Corbett, and at 12:30 this
morning Gibbons died. The conte.-1 wan
• ne of a number on the programme of
the club and the men were good friends.
For two rounds the contest continued
without much damage being done, al
though it was clear to the spectators that
Gibbons was no match for Perry. In
the third round :he men sparred a minute
and Perry, who had decidedly the better
of the argument, suddenly stepped In
close and shot a hard jab into Gibbons’
body. His glove land' d just under the
heart and Gibbons staggered back but
did not ball.
At this point Referee Gillespie ordered
the bout stopped declaring that Gib
bons was clearly unmatched, and the
men took off their gloves. Perry went
home, while Gibbons, after dressing
stayed about the club house some time.
Suddenly h» complained of feeling sick,
and began vomiting blood. This alarmed
the crowd and Dr. Curry was called In
to see after him. The physician found
the man badly Injured from Internal
hurts due to the shock, and as he con
tinued to sink, ordered his removal to a
hospital. Gibbons .was taken to the
Hahnemann hospital and bleeding from
his mouth continued. No marks were
visible to show where the bl- w landed
and the patient continued to sink and at
12:30 o’clock he died.
Perry was arrested at his home. He de
clared that the bout was friendly and
that he did not hit Gibbons very hard.
Martin Comber, a well known custom
house employe and the president of the
club, was arrested this morning, as were
also James O'Neill, who seconded Gib
bons, and William Farrell, a spectator.
Perry was arraigned before Magistrate
Jerman today and committed to jail to
await the notion of the coroner.
Comber. O’Neill and Gillespie were held
in 1800 bail each as accessorl s.
ANOTHER VICTIM.
Another death as the result of a box
ing bout occurred this morning at St.
Mary’s hospital. Christian Kellbecker,
aged 46 years, was the victim. On Thurs
day night Kellb»cker and Frank Connel
ly, aged 35, engaged In a glove contest
and Kellbecker was badly worsted. The
latter went to Ills home and yesterday
he was found unconscious In l.e-1 and was
removed to the hospital. Keilbecker’s
face presented a sorry spectacle. His
right eye was closed and his note and
forehead were badly cut.
Shortly after his admssion to the hos
pital the Injured man developed delirium
tremens, which the doctors say was su
perinduced, by the punishment h<> receiv
ed. Cofinelly was taken Into custody yes
terday. It Is not known whether gloves
were used, although It Is claimed that the
men were friends and that It was a friend
ly bout Kellbecker had been drinking
heavily of late.
This morning he died.
i i — — i
WIEL AWAIT INVESTIGATION.
Athens, March 20.—The Austrian cha: ge
d’ affaires, having replied to the Greek
protest against the sinking of a Greeks
schooner off Cape Dia, Crete, by the Aus
trian gunboat Sebenico, that the schoon
er was fired upon because of an attack
upon the gunboat by Cretan Insurgents,
the Greek government lias consented tor
await the result of inquiries Into the-af
fair which are now proceeding before
taking further action.
8A1EE NOT POSTPONED.
Nashville, Tenn., March 20. -(Special.)—
The annual horse sale of the Teowsyea
breeders la not postponed. It positively
begins here March 20. Three hundred
fine horaes will be.sold at auction.
e -BIRMINGHAM
■VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA.,
STATE HERALD.
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1897.
NUMBER 55
STILL INTRODUCING BILLS
Among Them Important Ones
Left Over
FROM THE LAST SESSION
Ruiz Correspondence Called for Treaty Dis
cussed Eehind Closed Doors—Tariff Bill
Under Discussion in the House.
Washington, llarch 22.—The legislative
session 04 the senate today lasted hut
forhy minutes, the arbitration, treaty be
tween the United States and Great Brit
ain being taken up thereafter behind
closed doors. In the short open session
nearly 200 bills were introduced and
many others were presented from com
mittees. Included in the latter were the
“free homestead” bill and the Immigra
tion bill, with the provision as to Cana
dian laborers eliminated, both of which
were u-r.der consideration in the last con
gress. the latter failing to become a law
owing Ito President Cleveland's veto. The
four great appropriation bills—the ag
ricultural, the Indian, the sundry civil
and general deficiency—which aiso failed
for lack of Cleveland's signature, wtiich
were reintroduced and passed last week
by the house, were referred to the com
mittee on appropriations.
House Joint resolution was pas.-ed ex
tending until December mxt the investi
gation as to the use of alcohol in the arts
by a joint commission of congress.
A resolution was agreed to calling ui>on
the president for '.he correspondence be
tween this government and Spain and
between the sta'te department and Con
sul-General I-.ee in regard to the arrest,
imprisonment and death at Gtianabacoa,
Cuba, of Dr. Ruiz, and inquiring what
steps have betn taken* in the matter.
The resolution regarding the Ruiz case
was introduced by Mr. Allen, populist, of
Nebraska. It grows of the belief that
Secretary Sherman will furnish the sen
ate with the correspondence In this case,
which was refused by Mr. Olney, when
the senate on the 23d of February last
passed a similar resolution on the motion
of Mr. 'Mills, of Texas. At that time Mr.
Olney sent to the senate a statement of
alleged facts made up from the corre
spondence, but declined Co send the cor
respondence on the ground that it would
tend to injure the persons referred to
therein and would be incompatible with
the public in-tere^-s.
At 5:40 the senate adjourned until to
morrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
The tariff debate fairly and regularly
started in the house today and will be
kept up for the next three days, after
which time the discussion will be on
amendments that may be offered. The
reading of the bill today occupied nearly
two h'ours and a balf. although there
was no pretense on the part of the clerk
that he was following the text in full.
The chair was occupied by Mr. Sherman,
republican, of New York, as chairman of
the committee of the whole.
The opening speech was made by Mr.
Dir.gley, republican, of Maine, chairman
of the committee on ways and means,
and was an exhaustive explanation and
defense of the measure.
The first speech in antagonism to It
was made by Mr. Wheeler, democrat, of
Alabama, a member of the committee on
ways and means. He asserted that the
prosperity which the people of the United
States had enjoyed had bec-n the result of
their industry and energy; not of the
protective system. In fact, it had been
accomplished, he said in spite of the pro
tective system. Even, the wonderful suc
cess of the iron industry in Alabama owed
nothing to the aid of protection. By
unanimous consent, Mr. Wheeler’s time
was extended until he had finished his
remarks—which met with frequent out
bursts of applause. His speech was fol
lowed by one In favor of the bill, made
by Mr. Hopkins, republican, of Illinois,
another member of the committee on.
ways and means, and by one against it
by Mr. Bell, populist, of Colorado.
At 5 o’clock, under the order gov
erning the consideration of Uhe tariff
bill, the house took a recess until 6
o’clock, the evening session to be de
voted to a continuance of the debate.
Mr. Hopkins, republican, of Illinois, was
designated to act as chairman at 'the
evening session.
THE MINORITY REPORT.
The views of the minority of the com
mittee on ways and means upon the tariff
bill were presented to the house this ev
ening by Representative Bailey, demo
crat, of Texas, and leader of the democ
racy. The report devotes 2,000 words
to a general arraignment of the protec
tive principle and concludes with the
statement that the minority “are unable
to offer a substitute for the pending bill
because we have not been allowed a rea
sonable time to prepare It. Congress
convened in extraordinary session on
Monday, the 15th day of March and this
bill was introduced the same day and
referred to the committee on ways and
means, which met the next morning and
on Thursday it was ordered to be report
ed to the house. The majority of the
committee had spent the three months
of the last session of the last congress
in the preparation of their bill and yet
they refused to allow the minority three
weeks in which to prepare a substitute.
We are unwilling to propose a measure
that has not been carefully matured, and
we must therefore content ourselves with
protesting against the passage of the
committee bill.” '
EVENING SESSION.
At the evening session of the house
about 100 members were in their seats,
while the galleries, as at all night ses
sions, were filled to overflowing. Mr. Tay
lor, republican, of Indiana, was the first
speaker In opposition to the bill. He
devoted some time to a criticism of the
majority for rushing through the house
the four appropriation bills last week
and turning his attention to the tariff
bill, ridiculed the free list. He was fol
lowed by Mr. Green, populist, of Ne
braska, who made a general political
speech, around the question, "how are
the people to buy the products of idle
mills which are to be started by the Ding
ley bill, when they can't buy what the
mills now open produce?”
Mr. Green has some of the arts of the
orator, and Is likely to be heard from
again before the session closes.
Toward the close of his speech, Mr.
Green was asked what relief he proposed
for the farmers, in whose behalf he was
attacking the construction of the tariff
bill. "I will tell you,” was his response,
followed by derisive laughter from the
republicans "Go back to the use of
the money of the constitution of which
you have deprived them.” (Democratic
applause.) “And I'll tell you another
thing you can do—you can keep your
hands nut of our pockets. (Democratic
applause.)
“All we have ever asked was that laws
be passed so that the people of the east,
the west, the north and south, should en
Joy equal protection in the products of
their labor.’'
A republican asked: “Whose hands
are In your pockets?"
“I’ll tell you,” sharply responded Mr.
Greene, "the hands of the protected mon
opolies and trusts of the east are In
them.” (Democratic applause.)
Prosperity would not return to the
land. Mr. Green said, until plenty was re
stored to the home of the consumer, and
that could be secured best, he said, all
history demonstrated, when the volume
of circulating medium wa- greatest
among the people. The friends of silver
wanted that restored to its old-time priv
ileges and use, and they proposed to have
it. Then there would be protection to
the farmer and the miner, and the time
would come when equal rights should
be extendrd to all and special prlvllges
to none. (Loud applause on the floor and
in the galleries).
'Mr. Carmack, democrat, of Tennessee,
als opposed the bill, saying that there
was absolutely nothing in the last cam
paign and election which Justified the
assumption on the republican side that
the people either expected or desired the
passage of any such measure as their
tariff bill. That was not the issue upon
which the republican party won its vic
tory.
The last speech of the evening was
made by Mr. Brucker, democrat, of Mich
igan. who, as the representative of the
Saginaw volley district, Inveighed agalnrt
the iniquity c.f the proposed increase in
the duty on lumber. He denounced any
protective tariff on lumber as an out
rage.
At 10:30, half an hour before the limit
of the session, no one else was desirous
of addressing the house, whereupon the
committee rose and the house adjourned
until 10 o’clock tomorrow.
BOB'S LEFT SWING
Finds an Englishman for a Knock-Down
Jim on the Outlook for Him.
San Francisco, Cal.. March 22.—Robert
Fitzsimmons knocked out an English
traveler named Campbell, in the Bald
win hotel barroom early this morning.
After his exhibition at a local resort
last night the champion. Martin Julian
and AV. A. Brady, Corbett’s manager,
returned to the hotel and spent the night
discussing a return match Campbell
drifted in and said to Fitzsimmons that
the Carson affair was not a true fought
battle and that the best man did not win.
Fitzsimmons knocked him down with a
left swing.
Corbett was at the Baldwin early today
watching for Fitzsimmons. He wanted
an interview, but was not favored. When
told Corbett was Jn quest of him Fitz
simmons dodged out and down the street.
Corbett says if he can’t meet Fitzsim
mons he won't meet any one.
JOHN SLOAN’S CONDITION.
Brunswick, Oa.. March 22.—Dr. Mc
Clave, of New York, attending physician
at tjie bedside of John Sloane, of New
York, now ill at Jekyl island, at 9 o’clock!
says: Mr. Sloane passed a very com
fortable day. He is resting tonight.
THE TURF.
'NEW ORLEANS RESULT’S.
New Orleans, March 22.—Warm, cloudy
weather and a heavy track marked to
day’s sport. Four favorites won, how
ever, the public picking the mud larks
well. Attendance, 2,500.
First. Race—Six furlongs. Pirate, 102
(Powers). 20 'to 1, won; The Sculptor sec
ond, Pat Morrissey third. Time, 1:19%.
Second Race—’Mile and n sixteenth.
Gomez, 97 (J. Hill). 2 to 1, won: Kenston
second, Nobilis third. Time, 1:58.
Third Race—One mile and twenty
yards. Rob Roy II., 86 (Songer). 12 to 1.
won; Jack the Jew second, A1 Miles
third. Time, 1:51.
Fourth Race—'Seven furlongs. Irish
Lady, 105 (Dorsey), even, won; Albert S.
second, Orimda third. Time. 1:32.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs. Nannie Lord,
110 (J. Hill). 8 to 5. won: Pert second,
Oily Gamin third. Time, 1:19.
Sixth Race-^Seven furlongs. Elkin, 104
(Campbell), 11 to 5, won; Dawn second,
Oilcan third. Time, 1:34%.
SUN’S COTTON.
New York, March 22.—Spot cotton here
was unchanged with sales of 1.860 bales
for export and 80 for spinning. The
fluctuations in prices today were few and
unimportant. The trading, what there
was of it. was intensely dull and of a lo
cal professional character, and at the
close prices were practically unchanged
from Saturday's final quotations. Re
ports of high water continue to be re
ceived from the south and on a small lo
cal demand prices here advanced slight
ly. The buying power was soon exhaust
ed, however, and in the absence of con
tinued support, prices reacted and lost
most of the improvement. The fear of
serious damage by a general overflow
checks any desire to sell on a large scale.
The spot markets in this country were
firm, the receipts were light and the ex
ports liberal, but the dullness of the
speculation is the principal factor.
OXFORD
Dangerous Operation Performed on a
Lady With Excellent Results
—Too Much Rain.
Oxford, Ala., March 22.—(Special.)—
Mrs. H. W. Luttrell, the wife of one of
our best citizens, has been critically 111
for about a week. Dr. Davis, of Bir
mingham, assisted by Drs. Whiteside,
Bell, Ligon and Williams, of this place,
performed for her a very dangerous oper
ation this morning, ahd we trust may
save her life to her family and many
friends.
‘‘Rain, rain, rain, and farmers getting
pretty blue.”
CULLMAN
County Board off Revenue Election
Passed Off Quietly—Schlosser
Meets a Waterloo.
Cullman, March 22.—(Sjpeclol.)—The
special election ifor members of a board
of revenue In lieu of the board of county
commissioners passed off quietly. In this
district Schlosser, the old commissioner.
Is beaten two to one. Returns from other
districts not in.
CENTRAL’S EARNINGS.__
New York, March 22.—The gross earn
ings of the Central of Georgia Railroad
company system for the seven months
ended January 31, 1897, shows total earn
ings of $3,408,789, a decrease of $59,406; to
tal operating expenses and taxes, $2,
065,364. a decrease of $67,164, and net ap
plicable to fixed charges, $1,510,625, a de
crease of $127,457.
MAGAZINE EXPLODED.
Wellsvllle, N. Y., March 22.—The mag
azine of the Rock Glycerine company,
located a mile and a half, from here, blew
up this morning, and Shooter H. H.
Young and hts ttam of horses and wagon
were blown to atoms. Two men in ad
dition were injured, but not fatally.
A CYCLONE'S OEAOL1 WORK
Eight Children Crushed and
Mangled to Death
IN THE BROKEN TIMBERS
Of a School House—Two Teachers and 1 hirteen
Pupils Badly Maimed—Other Houses
Wrecked—Georeia Town in Gloom.
Savannah, Ga., March 22.—A special
to the Morning News from Arlington,
Ga., says: A terrible cyclone struck here
this morning about 8:30 o’clock. It passed
through the south side of town and to
tally wrecked the academy and partial
ly demolished several other houses. In
the academy a number of children were
at school. The building was completely
demolished and on removal of the debris
eight were found dead and fifteen wound
ed. Some six escaped with slight bruises
and scratches.
THE DEAD:
CLAUDE ROBERTS, aged 14. terribly
mangled and Internally injured,
MOLLIE PARRAMORE, aged 17,
crushed beneath a chimney.
ALBERT BUTLER, aged 6.
ALICE PUTNAM, aged 15.
WILLIE M'MURRIE. aged 10.
KENNETH BOYNTON, aged 7.
MARY WELLONS, aged 8.
MAUD JOHNSON, aged 10.
All she dead are terribly mutilated from
being crushed and bruised by the falling
timbers and debris.
ITIHE INJURED.
Prof. W. A. Covington, principal of
the school, badly bruised, but no frac
tures.
Prof. Walker, assistant teacher, inter
nal Injuries and one leg broken, will prob
ably die,
Pou Parramore, aged 15, one leg broken.
Nettle Parramore, aged 13, badly
bruised hut will recover.
Alton, aged 8, one leg and arm broken
and face badly bruised.
Ethel Carter. 10 years old. slightly In
jured from scratches and bruises, will get
well.
Amie Coley, leg broken.
Willie Collins, aged 12, face badly
bruised.
George Riley, 13 years old. slightly
Injured.
Dudley Kllbrew, aged 18, both legs
broken and face badly emaciated, may
die.
Edith Williams, bruised.
Simon Adams, aged 12. bruised and onS
leg crushed, will recover.
Earnest Wellons. bruised.
This is the worst disaster that has ever
visited this quiet village. The rain
has been pouring down all day. Every
store and business house in the town has
been closed for the day and every coun
tenance has been saddened by the trag
ical deaths of the children. All neighbor
ing towns have wired sentiments of deep
est sympathy. Telegrams from B. C.„
Epperson and T. D. Kline, of the Central’
Railway company, have also been re
ceived offering any assistance in the
power of the company to render.
Considerable damage was done in the
vicinity of Damascus, ten miles south
of here, but no lives were lost. As yet
no other details have been learned from
the surrounding country.
A SMALL CYCLONE.
Washington. Ind., March 22.—A small
cyclone struck this county at 4 o’clock
this morning. The north wall of the
Swan school building was torn out and
the stone cross on St. Simon’s church
steeple blown off and broken. Many trees
were uprooted and windows broken.
DID MUCH DAMUGE.
Wheatland, Ind., (March 22.—At an
early hour this morning a cyclone passed
over this town, doing much damage.
Many houses were unroofed and trees
and fences destroyed. No one was se
riously injured.
SIX-STORY BUILDING
Supposed to Have Been Fire Proof Burns
Like Tinder—Occupants Forced
to Jump for Their Lives.
Lawrence, Mass., March 22.—Fire was
discovered in the Gleason building at
3:15 o'clock this morning. The building
is a six-story structure on Essex street,
in the business center. The Are burst
from the roof and quickly communicated
■with the other portions of the building.
The building was soon a seething mass
of flames and a general alarm was rung
in. Tongues of (lame shot up fifty feet
in the air, full of flying sparks and set
fire to several building in the vicinity.
These fires were quickly extinguished.
(The windows were full of people scream-i
lng for help and many leaped to the
ground. Capt. Murphy, of the police
force, saw a woman in a window in the
rear of the building. Murphy and Po
liceman Donovan spread out an over
coat and caught her as she jumped.
The Central house, which adjoins the
Gleason building, was filled with smoke
and the frightened guests fled from the
hotel in ecant clothing. Joseph Jack
son, proprietor of the hotel, was the first
to smell smoke and awoke his guests by
ringing electric bells. The Central house
caught fire, but the firemen extinguished
the flames after a hard struggle. The
hotel was flooded with water.
The Gleason building was erected ten
years ago and was supposed to be fire
proof. At 6 o’clock every floor had fall
en and nothing was standing but the bare
walls and It %-as feared that they would
collapse. It was at first thought that
several persons were lost, but all have
been accounted for except tine.
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Bowerlng jumped
from the sixth story. Mr. Powering's
leg was broken, and his wife was Injured!
internally and had several ribs broken.
Bernard Gallagher and his brother
William, were injured. William carried
Bernard out of the building.
William I. Robinson, A. S. Huntress
and Leon De Sauliers sustained more
or less severe burns.
A Miss Wood, who was reported miss
ing, is in Boston.
P. S. Abbott & Co., occupied the base
ment, and ground floor and the remainder
of the building was occupied by Miss
Mackeoun, milliner; Misses Lear, dress
makers; Julia Roby, dressmaker; Hovey,
banjo teacher; Hill, piano teacher; James
W. Lane, music teacher; Russel], pho
tographer; Fred N. Poole, insurance; N.
Craig, saddler; Miss Upton, dressmaker;
Dodge, electrician; Miss Peters, dress
cutting school; Miss Toltqan and Lawyer
Toiman; the Robinson collecting agency;
Dr. Sanborn and the Clover club.
The building was-owned by Mrs. Os
wald and was Insured for $30,000.
The loss Is plac##*at $100,000. The
I cause of the fire Is unknown.
II HOI MILITARY FORCE
Being Quietly Organized by King
George.
THE OUTLOOK IN CANEA
Begins to Assume a Serious Aspect for the
Turkish Troops—Germany Shows Her
Hand—Uncle Sam Neutral.
-Athens, March 22.—King George today
had a long interview with M. Onou, the
Russian minister, after which he sum
moned Prime Minister Delyannis, to
whom he gave a prolonged audience. The
government has ordered the enrollment
of all robust citizens, not otherwise lia
ble to military sendee, to form a militia
force to guard the towns in the absence of
the troops. Advices were received here
today that a cannon exploded In the
Turkish camp at Elassona, killing an offi
cer and eight soldiers.
-o
THE OUTLOOK AT CANEA
Becomes Serious for the Turks—Trooi»s
Have Only Two Days’ Provisions.
Cam a, March 22.—The outlook In this
city and vicinity Is not very reassuring;.
The situation of the Turkish garrison in
the fort at Melaxa is very critical. The
place is besieged by insurgents, and the
Turkish troops have not enough provi
sions to last them more than two days.
Attempts have been made to re-victual
the fort, but the insurgents have ren
dered the efforts fruitless. If the Chris
tians capture the forts at Malaxa and
Kerattde, which it now appears highly
probable they will do. Canea will be
virtually blockaded landward.
SETTLEMENT OF THE QUESTION
Between i.he Powers Cannot Be Reached
—Germany Declares Her Attitude.
Berlin, March ?2.—The Post, which is
known as the ambassadors’ organ, says
semi-offleially today that it seems an
agreemi nt between the powers on the
Cretan question cannot be reached. It
ndds that if Germany's efforts to main
tain peace do meet with the supporr of
the other powers, she will not further lend
her disinteres.ed service to that end.
UNCDE SAM NEUTRAL.
Washington, March 22—The United
Slates will take no action at present re
garding the blockade of Crete. Secretary
Sherman says he will simply acknowl
edge the receipt of the notes from Che
representatives In Washington of the
powers which were delivered to him yes
terday.
GREECE OR NOTHING.
London, March 22.—in the house of
^Commons today the Rt. Hon. George N.
Curzon, parliamentary secretary of che
foreign office, stated that Sir Alfred Bill
otti, (he British consul at Canea, had re
ported to the governor the texc of an in
terview had on Friday last by the ad
mirals of t'he warships in Cretan waters
with the chiefs of the insurgents. The
chiefs did not approve of che scheme of
the powers to grant autonomy to the
island, and declared that nothing but an
nexation with Greece would satisfy them.
A SERIOUS FAILURE.
Denison, Tex., March 22.—Martin, Wise
& Fitzhugh, of Paris, Tex., today made
a deed of trust conveying all their prop
erty to a trustee for cite benefit of their
creditors. This #rm was one of the larg
est and oldest cotton firms In the south.
They are financially connected with the
Dt nlson. coWon mills, an unfinished Insti
tution, that represents capital already
expended to the amount of half a million
dollars. They also have their own cot
ton compress in the state, and, wichal,
the failure will prove to he the most dis
astrous in the south for many years.
HUNTER NOT WANTED.
Louisville, Ky., March 22—The Times
Frankfort correspondent telegraphs that
Dr. W. H. Huncer has made overtures
to Gov. Bradley to withdraw his optposi
tion to Hunter’s election as senator, and
the governor declined to do so.
A OHARG-E OF BRIBERY.
Frankfort, Ky.. March 22.—The house
this morning authorized the speaker to
appoint: a committee of five to Investigate
the report that certain members have
been off; red money for their votes for
United States senator.
READY FOR SERVICE.
Fire Engine No. 1 Has Its Broken Wheels
Repaired by the Crew and Is now
Ready for Active Duty.
The old No. 1 fire engine of the North
Side fire department has been out of ser
vice for several days on account of a
pair of bad wheels. A fine pair of new
wheels “were received yesterday from
the American Steam Fire Engine com
pany, of Cincinnati, and the steamer
crew', Messrs. Massay, Gossett, Hen
dricks and Barr, placed them in position
at once. Engine No. 1 is now as good as
ever, but needs a little painting up to
make it correspond with the new wheels
and will be returned to service at once.
The excellent “boys” who comprise the
steamer crew have saved the city many
dollars in repairing the broken bits of
machinery and doing other needed re
pairs on the different apparatus.
TO SPOT THE STATE.
(Albany, N. Y., March 22.—What has
ibeen feared and suggested by the repub
lican leaders from the interior and up
country section of the state has come
to pass. They argued that the creation
of a greater New York was the first step
toward making a separate state out of
the territory adjacent to New York har
bor. Assemblyman Tralnor will tonight
Introduce two bills looking toward the
creating of a new state out of the coun
ties. of New York. Kings, Richmond,
Queens, Suffolk, West Chester and Put
nam.
DISTRICT ATTORNEYSHIP.
Reports Say Warren Reese Has Been
Turned Down and Louis E. Par
. • sfons Will Be Given the Job.
The political waves were a little dis
turbed In republican circles yesterday
over the report that Louis E. Parsons had
i been wired to report in Washington at
once and that tv* left immediately for the
capital.
A State Herald reporter talked with
several republicans relative to the call,
but they were all more or less reticent
about talking-. It leaked out, however,
that Mr. Warren Reese has been turned
down and that Mr. Parsons is to be ten
dered the position as district attorney
for the middle district if he will accept
the place.
It is said that chairman Vaughan and
Mr Youngblood both recommended the
appointment of Col. Reise, and this sud
den change has somewhat disconcerted
matters and local republicans are won
dering what it means.
Another phase in the situation is that
Mr. Parsons livc-s in Hirmlngham", but it
is argued that most of his efforts are in
Coosa county, his old home, which is in
the middle district, and that he can con
sistently change homes If necessary.
The political gonslppers are saying that
the pm pose of the administration seems
to tend very much towards the policy to
appoint only life-long republicans on the
main picket-posts and only the crumbs
will fall to the recent converts, while the
Palmer!tea will have to saw wood and
vote straight a time or two before they
will be taken into full fellowship.
MADE A FOOLISH WAGER.
After Fulfilling the Conditions a Negro
Takes the Eternal Sleep.
Late Saturday afternoon Jess- Will
ingham, a negro resident of Pratt City,
while drinking with several other friends
of his color, made a bet that he could
drink one quart of gin without feeling
its effects. This he proceeded to do
at once and did not show any ill-effects.
He and his friends continued their con
vivial pastime.
During the remainder of the afternoon
and the early part of the night Willing
ham is said to have taken about twenty
jnore drinks of whisky, besides a lot of
Nor and found himself dead drunk. Ho
was arrested and locked in a cell in the
Pratt City jail.
Sunday morning an officer went in to
wake him but found, to his surprise, that
the negro was dead. After a thorough
Investigation it was decided that death
resulted from alcoholic excess. iTIhe
"fool killer" had been abroad in the lard
and claimed another victim.
The body was taken in charge by Miller
& Co. and buried yesterday in the pauper
cemetery over Red mountain.
THE POLICE COMMISSION,
At a Special Meeting the Contract for
New Uniforms Was Awarded tp a
Local Tailoring Company.
The police commission held a meeting
yesterday afternoon at 4:30 o'clock in the
office of Garrett & Underwood, over the
First National bank, for the purpose of
awarding the contract for the spring
uniforms for the police force.
Those present were Commissioners W.
C. Garrett, E. Lesser, and M. C. Rey
nolds, Just a quorum.
Seven bids had been received and were
opened. Of this number three foreign
tailors had made estimates on the work.
After carefully considering each bid the
contract was awarded to L. Hogan &
Co., the First avenue • furnishers and
merchant tailors. Although their bid
was not the lowest one, it was considered
to be to the best interests of all parties
concerned that they do the work.
The contract calls for a helmet, the
trimmings and the suit of clothes com
plete. The uniforms will be similar to
those worn last spring and summer by
the officers.
The measurements will be taken today
and work begun at once in order that
the officers may be able to appear in
them shortly after Easter.
The contract calls for forty-two uni
forms complete.
No other business was transacted and
the commission adjourned.
A Corps of Surveyors On the Ground
Locating the Site and Running
Lines to t'he Cbial Fields.
Col. R. M. Long, of Oordova, was In
the city yesterday. He says that: a full
corps of surveyors are now at work sur
veying the grounds for the new cotton
factory and running the lines for the new
railroad to the coal fields. Work of grad
ing will begin within the next few days
nnd the construction af the mill will go
right ahead.
Cordova is situated in Walker county,
at the Junction of the Southern and the
Kansas CJ.y, Memphis und lllrmingham
railroads, and the product of the new
mill can be distributed direct to any
point. The cotton fields and coal beds lay
nearly side by side, and Mr. Long says
there are no reasons why, with the very
latest improved machinery, that the
Cordova mills cannot Jump right to the
front to begin with and control the trade
for all i'ts product.
This will be one of the largest mills
in the south and the projectors propose
to follow it up with another equally as
large If they find the first proves a suc
cessful competitor with the great mills
of the east, and they cannot now figure
how it can be otherwise with ail the nat
ural advantages efftred.
He Passed Through His Old Home Yes
terday—Not His First Offense-Se
rious Condition of His Wife.
THE CORDOVA
BASS BROUGHT BACK.
A gentleman from Syiacauga reached
the city last nigh; and reported fhalt Mr.
Bass, w'ho is wanted on the charge of
forgery, and who was recently arrested
in Houston^ Tex., passed through Sylu
cauga yesterday at noon in charge of
an officer en route to Talladega. The
gentleman also reported that several
business men of Syiacauga were duped
by Bass, himself among the number, for
several hundred dollars, but the exact
amount is nd. yet known. He was ar
rested and brought back on a warrant
sworn ouit by Smith Bros.
The gentleman also stated that it Is
reported that Bass ran a newspaper sev
eral years ago in Wd.umpka, and raised
a certificate for work done for the county
from $25 to $250, but that the matter
was settled at a heavy cost and hushed
up.
(Bass has a father and two brothers in
Texas, who are sail to be well off, and
his wife's father, wtho resides in Coosa
county. Is said to be one of tthe wealthiest
men In the county, 'ills father-in-law as
sisted him out of his first trouble, but
now says he will have nothing whatever
to do with him. Mrs. Bass is at her fath
er’s home, and is in a precarious condi
tion, and brooding over her husband's
misdeeds may result very seriously with
her.
Bass once resided in this city, and was
an employe in one of the railroad offices
as telegraph operator.
HEED'S IRON HID RULE
Again Ma^ Manifest by His
AS TOpOPULIST MEMBERS
r* —
Says sses Them With Democrats— Long
A#. i to the Civil Service Rule—Can
to ig Factories Raise a Kick.
Washington. March 22.—Speaker Reed
Is not disposed to regard the populists
in the house a* a separate organization.
About ten days ago the populist repre
sentatives presented a petition to Speaker
Reed reciting the fact that at the last
election they had cast about 2,000.000
votes; elected governors in five states,
elected twenty-seven members of the
present house and requesting therefor that
they have a representation on the com
mittee on ways and means, judiciary, ap
propriations, banking, coinage elections
and others. Mr. Reed has just replied
that he preferred to recogniz the popu
lists as a part of the democratic organiz
ation and that decision will stand for tills
congress at least.
THE TARIFF DEBATE.
Will Prove Itcresting as a Demand for
Time Has Been Made.
Washington. March 22.—X^withstand
ing that forty hours have been provided
fi r general debate on the tariff bill, much
more than that time has already been
asked for by those on Chairman Sher
man's list. Members of the committee
on ways and means are entitled to an
hour each and those wh > open tht debate
usually have ail the time a. corded to
them that they desire to use. Many of
those who desire to speak will be c m
pelled to find their opportunity in the
course of the five minutes' debate and
take advantage of the "leave to print”
to extend their remarks In the congres
sional record. Opponents of tile hill arn
much more in evidence in the list of appli
cants for time than friends < t the meas
ure.
O
LONG ON THE CIVIL LIST.
Refuses to Let Down the Bars at the
Navy Yards for Partisans.
Washington, March 22.—Secretary John
D. Long, of the navy department, has
made an emphatic answer to the con
gressional delegations from N w York.
Pennsylvania, Virginia and California,
who have been requesting him for the
past two weeks to "let down the bars”
at the Brooklyn, League Island. Norfolk
and Mare Island navy yards, sj as to
admit party workers in them irrespec
tive of merit qualifications. It has been
alleged that in carrying int ■ effect the
civil service regulation favoritism was
shown to democrats. Mr I. ng replies
that "when the system of empl ring me
chanics and laborers upon merit first
went into effect It was reasonable to
suppose that those who were to adminis
ter the regulations would make some
mistakes," but "favoritism will not now
be allowed." He then adds these ex
plicit Instructions: "It is the intention
of the department to enforce fairly and
Justly the regulations as promulgated,
and to disarm unjust criticism it Is neces
sary that the attention of the officials
at the yard under your command be
called to what Is expected of him, as to
the certainty of punishment if any per
son entrusted with the enforcement of
the labor regulations violates them or
fails, thr. ugh carelessness or negligence,
to perform the duties expected and re
quired of him. The department de
sires you to personally communicate to
officials at the yard under your command
Its views as expressed above.”
A VIOLATION OF ANTl-TRUST LAW.
Washington. March 22.—Tty a majority
opinion, delivered by Justice Peekham.
the supreme court today announced fts
decision that the agreement of the i:rans
iMissouri Freight association to main
tain rates within its 'territory was a vio
lation of ihe anti-trust law of 1890. pro
hibiting contracts or combinations in re
straint of trade, and must be abandoned.
This reversed the decision of the courts
below, which ordered a dismissal of the
government bill. Justices Field, Gray,
Shims and White dissented.
WILL BENEFIT REVENUE.
Washington, March 22.—The ways
and means committee mad? public today
a detailed statement showing the esti
mated revenue under the new measure
for each schedule, with the average ad
valorem rates under the McKinley law.
the present law and the pending bill.
Dutiable value of merchandise fir the
year 1893. $400,069,658; for 1896. $290,796,561;
estimated by proposed law. $479,540,406;
revenues collected In 1893. $198,373,452: In
1896, $156,104,598; estimated by proposed
law', $273,501,721. Equivalent ad valorem
under law' of 1893, 49.58 per cent.; under
law of 1896, 39.S4 percent.; under proposed
law, 67.03.
PROTEST AGtATNIST IMPORT DUFY.
Washington. March 22.—A d legation
from Baltimore, rtrjjroscnting the “Can
ned Goods Exchange ’ of i ha: city, today
filed with the ways and means commit
tee of the house a protest against the
proposed duty of 2 cents per pound on
green pineapples, which they elalm-d
would shut up the canning factories and
throw thousands of persons out of em
ployment.
ANOTHER AIMURICAN RELEASED.
Washington, March 22.---Consul Barker,
at Fagua Lagrande, Cuba, telpgraphod
the rtate department yesterday that
Frank J. Cazanas, a naturalized Ameri
can citizen, has been released from Jail
at that place. The state department has
not much information about the case.
Cazanas was arre^.td atBagua Febntary
13. Consul Barker ascertained that he
has been naturalized, though the date
has not been learned. He has not resided
In the United States for twenty-five
years. He lived on a planta'lon near
Sagua until last May, when he wen't to
that town His age was given as 31
years In hts passport; and ills registra
tion In Cuba was set down as having
taken place in October, 1872, which makes
him 4fi years old. Consul-G c-nerai Lee
found that Cazanas owned property in
New York.
INJURED THREE MEN
Denver, Col., March 22.- -The eosfbound
Union Pacific overland crushed into th.e
end of a freight train at Green River,
Wye, shortly hi,'ore 3 o'clock this morn
ing, seriously Injuring three men. Jim
Wakely, George ,S(lar and a number of
other 3iK,i'ts returning from Carson City,
were aboard the passenger train, but aJI
escaped uninjured.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
•VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., -WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1897.
NUMBER' 55
CIVIL SERVICE DENOUNCED
Its Utter Inefficiency Shown Up
by Senators,
AID FOR FLOOD SUFFERERS
Turpie Advocates Electing Senators by th
People—Repartee in the Tariff Discus
sion on the Floor of the House.
Washington, March 23.—The senate In
dulged today in an almost one-sided de
nunciation of the civil service law and
its administration. The matter came
up in the shape of a resolution offered by
Mr. Allen, directing the committ- e on
civil service to inquire into the dismis
sal of some half dozen employes (niicro
scopists) of the bureau of animal industry
in South Omaha, Neb. His assertion
was that the dismissals were for politi
cal reasons.
Mr. Galllnger, r publican, of New
Hampshire, did not favor the proposed
investigation because it would bring out
so many hundred other like grievances,
and Mr. Hoar objected to it on the same
ground—saying that such a hercul an
task should not be thrown on any com
mitter a,t this special session. The civil
service law, as administered, was char
acterized by Mr. Galllnger as “a monu
mental humbug.” He favored blotting
out me 1 a-vV anu returning to a conauion
of things That would give to every man
and woman an equal right to hold office
with every oth-r man and woman.
This declaration of principal was ap
plauded by th- galleri s and the galleries
were appropriately lectured by the vice
president on that breach of propriety.
Various instances of absurdities in civil
service examinations were furnished by
senators—Mr. Oallinger mentioning the
requirement of would-be compositors in
the gov- rnment printing office th'a.t they
should hop twelve times on one foot;
Mr. Wilson saying that civil service ex
aminations had been ordered in his state
for a cook in the penitentiary and a saw
yer on an Indian reservation; and ev-n
Mr. Hawley, who had been a member
of the house commute- which reported
the law originally, admitting that the
law had fallen into a state of "conspicu
ous incomp-tc-ncy" and giving as an il
lustration the fact that when an army
engineer in charge of a public work on
Long Island sound, had selected a com
petent inspector in the person of h steam
boat captain who knew every rock and
sand bar In the n- Ighborhood, the com
mission sent to him “a school master
from Rhode Island.”
The only senator who defended The law
and Its administration was Mr. Lodge.
The upshot of It all was that Mr. Al
len's motion was agreed to without a di
vision, but amended so as to Instruct the
commute- on civil service and retrench
ment to Inquire and report whi ther th?
civil service law should be continued,
amended or repealed.
Mr, Turple, democrat, of Indiana, made
an argument in favor of a constitu
tional amendment to make United States
senators ek-ctive by popular vote, In
stead of by state legislatures.
He summed up his argument in these
words;
"The pending amendment Is in strict
accordance with the great precedent of
progress and advancement set forth In
the preamble to the constitution. Our
purpose Is to form-a more perfect union
by bringing the nation's! 1-gislature in
compl-te accordance with the legisla
tive assemblies of the stales; to establish
Justice by granting to the voters of the
states that equality of suffrage which
;hr present system denies; to perpetuate
the blessings of liberty to ourselves and
our posterity by a further and nobler
recognition of duties and rights Inherent
in all citizens, so -that the supremacy of
the people, nev r gainsaid, so often with
lips confessed, with the tongue asserted
and maintained, shall at last be and be
come a vital force, a living presence, a
fact accomplished in the government of
the republic. This will give to our past
its fulr meaning, to the future hope yet
more abounding for the present It would
place a fixed star In the galaxy of pro
gress, and visit in all the latitudes of lib
erty throughout the world.”
At the close of Mr. Turple’s remarks the
senate went into executive session.
After a short time the doors were re
open <1 and legislative business was re
sumed.
These three bills were passed by the
senate: Directing the secretary of war
to supply a thousand tents to shelter and
r-rlieve the sufferers from the flood In
the Mississippi river. •
To establish the official survey of frac
tional townships in Nebraska.
To amend the act repealing the timber
culture laws.
The latter bill was explained by Mr.
Pettigrew to be th? same as was passed
by both houses last session, but which
the president had been "too busy Ashing”
to sign.
The Torrey bankruptcy bill (modified)
was reported and was, on motion of Mr.
Hoar, made the unfinished business, not
to be called up immediately, however.
A constitutional amendment to make the
30th of April Inauguration day was In
troduced by Mr. Hoar.
At 3:45 p. m. the senate adjourned until
tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
The second day’s debate on the tariff
bill was something of an improvement
over that of the first day. although Mr.
Dockery's s otement c.arly in the day
was, and is correct, that up to this time
the debate, compared to those which
have preceded It within the present dec
ade, is tame and uninteresting. The
event of the day was the speech of Mr.
Dollivar. He held the attention of the
whole house, republicans and democrats
alike, for over an hour and kept his hear
ers laughing nearly from start tp finish
by his humerous descriptions of ithe ef
fects of fret trade or tariff for revenue
laws. 'His eloquent periods in advocacy
and defense of the protective tariff pol
icy aroused his political associates to a
high state of enthusiasm.
Speeches in opposition to the bill were
made by Messrs. Gibson, republican, of
Tennessee; Lacey, republican, of Iowa;
Newlands, silver, of Nebraska; the latter
of whom spoke from the standpoint of
an opponent of the republican party’s
financial policy, but an advocate of pro
tection-. A full measure’ of prosperity,
he claimed, would never be restored to
the country until the old-time parity of
silver with gold was re-established.
'Speeches In opositlon to the bill were
made by Messrs. Dockery, democrat, of
Missouri, who attacked the agricultural
schedule particularly, and Mr. MoLaur
ln, democrat, of Soutlj Carolina, who ad
vocated a tariff on cotton ind rice, and
announced his opposition to the policy of
free raw material.
He demanded that the cotton planter
should not be plundered by the whole
world, while the wheat grower was pro
tected against his near neighbor. He
expressed his purpose of offering amend
ments placing a duty of 2V6 cents per
. pound on all imported cotton and 2 cents
per pound on rice, as a mat.er of simple
jlrsiice to the south.
The demand for free wool or a recipro
cal duty thereon by Mr. McLaurin was
applaud :d by the democrat-- and popu
lists. While In the course of his speech
he was contrasting the rate and extent
of the growth of the wealth of the man
ufacturing states north and east, as
compared with that of the southern
slutts, Mr. Ltnney. republican, of North
Carolina, asked him why the people of
the southern states did not build fac
tories ard thus secure the advantages of
the eastern and northern states, instead
or “cussing'’ the more fortunate sections
of the country.
“The prtsence of republicans and popu
lists in those states," answered Mr. Mc
Laurln, “makes it impossible for us to
get money for these Improve mens;”
(Laughter and applause).
Mr. Swanson, democrat, of Virginia,
also agreed with 'Mr. Newlands that the
rehabilitation of tlje silver os basic
money was an e.-sentlal prerequisite to
prosperity, and iMr. Cochran, democrat,
of Missouri, who contended that the rea
son why factories ceased operations was
because the people had no money with
which to buy their products.
The senate joint resolution appropriat
ing Jin,000 to tnable the secretary of war
to purchase tones for the houseless vic
tims of the Mississippi river floods was
agreed to. r
At 5 o’clock a recess was taken until
S o’clock, the evening session to be oc
cupied on the tariff bill.
EVENING SESSION
The first address of the evening was
that of Howard, populist, of Alabama.
He said he would vote for the bill be
cause he believed in the broad, patriotic
principle of protection to American in
dustry.
Mr. Adamson, democrat, of Georgia,
followed in opposition r.o the bill, speak
ing as one of the “six and a half million
all ged anarchists, who voted last fall
for honest money, honest taxation' and
honest government.” He said the pro
ceedings of this congress afforded much
interest, if but It.tie satisfaction.
“The novel me.thod of legislating en
tirely by machinery, unless Its results
happily disappoint our expectations, will
demand the Insertion of a new plank In
our next platform to d null nee legisla
tion by machinery as well as government
by injunction.”
Mr. Kelly, populist, of South Dakota,
denounced the bill as a specimen of “rob
in r protection.”
The last speech was by 'Mr. ClaiJ.v,
democrat, of Kentucky, who deviled
hims. If to the exposition of an amend
ment he proposed to offer to the bill by
which American tobacco could be ad
mitted in the ordinary channel of trade
to the countries of Europe which now
debar it from tntrance except under con
ditions that practically prevent its sale.
[ At 10:30 tire committee roce and the
house adjourned until tomorrow.
CANEVARO’S PROCLAMATION
To the Insurgents and Greek Troops Will
Not Be Obeyed—Three Hundred
French Troops Arrive In Can-a.
Canea. March 23.—Three hundred
French troops, the first of the reinforce
ments ordered to Crete for service, land
ed at Suda today. Later they marched
to this city. Three hundred other
French troops will go to Sltia, at the
eastern end of the island.
Admiral Canevanoi the Italian officer,
who Is by reason of seniority in command
of the combined flet-ts of the pjw-rs, has
issued a proclamation enjoining the in
surgents and Greek troops not to attack
the Turkish forts at Kissamee, Suda,
Malaxa, Retimo, Oandia and Hierapetra,
these forts being necessary for the main
tenance of order at the ports where the
i- foreign troops will be disembarked.
The proclamation closes with a warn
ing that measures will be taken to in
sur:- respect for it.
I't is doubted that the insurgents will
pay any heed to the proclamation.
WHOLESALE MASSACRE
Of Armenians in a Church and Their
Quarters Pillaged Afterwards.
Constantinople, March 23.—In conse
quence erf the troubles at Tokal, in the
Sivas district of Anatolia, Sir Phillip
Currie, the British ambassador, has s nt
to the porte the strongest remonstrance
that has yet been addressed to the gov
ernment in an official communication1.
The official report of the affair said
that flfte n Armenians and three Mussul
mans were killed, but the embassies have
received reliable information that fully
100 Armenians were massacred. The
people w re killed while In church. Dur
ing ar.d after the massacre the Armenian
quarter of the city was given over to
pillage.
The Turkish newspapers In their com
ments upon the blockade of Crete re
mark upon the pacific attitude of the
powers towards Turkey. Their attitude,
they say, is conformable with the rights
and political interests of the porte, and
furnishes fresh proof of the striking suc
cess that has b’een gained by the sultan.
It also testifies to the friendship of the
powers for the porte and their solicitude
for the peace of the world. .
GREECE REMAINS SILENT.
So Far as Great Britain Is Concerned—
France Has a Reply.
London, March 23.—In the house of
commons today Mr. G. N. Curzon, under
foreign secretary, in reply to a question
by Sir Charles Dilke, said that the gov
ernment had not received any proposals
from Greece looking to a compromise of
the powers beyond what was contained
in Greece’s supplementary note, which
had already been made known to the
house. It Seemed, however, that the
Greek minister at Paris had made verbal
communications to M. Hanotaux, the
French minister of foreign affairs, but
none Buch had been made to the goveriv
meat of Great Britain.
In reply to a question by Mr. John G.
S. McNeill, antl-Parnelilte, Mr. Curzon
said .that Turkey was not taking any
part in the blockade of Cretan ports,
and that Turkish merchant vessels in
entering the ports of Crete would be
| subject to the same restrictions as were
imposed upon vessels of other nations.
THE MESABA NOT IN IT,
And Another Bessemer Iron Ore Pool
Will Have to Be Formed.
Cleveland, O., March 23.—After another
meeting of representatives of all mines
producing Bessemer iron ore in the Lake
Superior mining country today, it was
announced that the leading interests on
the Mesaba range—Rockefeller and the
Minnesota Iron company—were unable
to reach an agreement and the mines of
the Mesaba will have no part in that
pool for 1897. This means competition
between the Mesaba and other ranges
and their prices for ore. A meeting of
mine owners of the old ranges will be
held tomorrow and it is opinion that a
pool of the old range mines will be
1 formed.
VICTORY FOB THE PEOPLE
Cullman County’s Election of a
Board of Revenue
PASSED OFF NOISELESSLY
Without the Much Vaunted Bloodseed—Two of
the Old Commissioners May Squeeze
in on Scant Majorities.
Cullman, March 23.—(Special.)—The
special election for members of the board
of revenue in lieu of the commissioners'
court, yesterday, passed off quietly all
over the county. There was no blood
shed, as the enemies of the bill predicted,
in a blood-curdling article in the Adver
tiser, when the bill passed. In the town
district Charlss L. York was elected over
W. A. Schlusser, present incumbent, by
more than two to one. York received 470
and Schlosser 206.
In the First district, the friends of
Wilhite, the old commissioner, claim his
election over W. F. Guthery by three
votes.
In the Second district, T. J. Tingle, the
old commissioner, seems to have def at.-d
W. S. Trimble by twenty-five majority.
In the Fourth, S. M. Foust was elected
over K. Wiley, the old commissioner, by
□ bout fifty majority.
Two new members were elected, which
gives it he control of the Ixtard to those
who oppose the actions of the old com
mlssloners, as the probate Judge is
strongly in favor of the reform move
ment in county affairs.
The popular vote in the county shows
a majority of about 250 in favor of a
complete change, but as r.he law provides
for the election of the board by districts,
as the commissioners have been elected
heretofore, tWO of the old members may
get in by a very small majority.
Th t tax commission argument and
every' hing else possible was used against
the candidates on the citizens* ticket. A
strong array' of speakers canvassed near
ly every beat In the county in behalf of
th" old commissioners. Representative
W. T. L. Cofer, Oeotge H. Parker, S. L.
Fuller. T. \V. Powell and oth rs of the
old set of politicians canvassed the coun
ty and attacked the law as undemo
cratic, un-American, unpatriotic and
"diabolical,’' but the people, when they
read the law fjr themselves, decid d the
issue against them.
Serna or Will G. Brown, the author of
the bill, made but two appointments in
the county, but mot the other speakers at
two or three of their appointments, dur
ing the last week of the canvass. He is
today receiving the congratulations of
hundreds of friends upon the Indorsement
the people have given him in the face of
the bitter and relentless personal fight
his enemies have made upon hl,m, not
only during the canvass, but for several
months past.
FOUR TRAMPS INJURED
And Twenty-two Cars of the Big Four
Derailed, the Result of a
Wreck.
Springfield, O., March 23.—Twcnty-fwo
cars of the Big Four freight No. 71 are
piled In’ a mass on the Ohio Southern
tracks, which pass the Big Four mar
Buffalo crossing. The wr ck was caused
by the breaking of tlie coupling between
two of the cars at 1 o’clock this morn
ing. The train came together again
and the wreck followed. Four tramps
have been found badly injured and four
others ar supposed, to be buried in the
wreck. Those injured are:
William Slney, Jersey City, shoulder,
head and back injured.
Frank Foy, St„-fcouls, cut and back of
head, leg and shoulders badly hurt.
William Kinsley, St. Douis, both legs
crushed.
Ed Kinsley, St. Louis, legs injured.
All Were taken to the hospital here.
PAID THE PENALTY.
Center City, Minn., March 23.—At 1
o'clock this morning George Kelly was
hanged in the county jail for complicity
in the murder of Edward Paul and Jacob
Hlaiyes. Kelly's neck was broken and
he was dead in ten minutes.
Nine months ago Edward Paul and
Jacob Hayes, youths just entering man
hood, were shot by one of two men who
attempted to hold up Dr. Burnside Fos
ter, of St. Paul, who arrived aft -r mid
night. The two men were George Kelly
and Robert Wilson. AVilson was killed
by a pursuing party of citizens the fol
lowing day. Kelly was tried in October,
found guilty and sentenced to b? hangtd.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, 'March 23.—Clear, cool
bright weather drew out 3,000 people to
i'.he race course today. The track was
lumpy and slow, but the talent landed
three favorites and three second choices,
beating the books well. About the only
bookmaker here who has much money
this winter Is Sam May, of St. Louis, who
is well over $30,000 ahead on the meet
ing. H. D. Brown, of California, the well
known starter, who is wintering here,
was wired notice today of his appoint
ment as official starter at the Newport
meeting.
First Race—'Six furlongs. Overella, 108
(Knapp), 5 to 2, won; Oily Gamin second.
Loyal Prince third. Time, 1:19(2.
Second Race—Seven furlongs. Senator
Penrose, 98 (A. Barrett), 9 to 5, won; Char
lie Christy second, Prince Proverb third.
Time, 1:34(4
Third Race—Mile and a quarter. Do
mingo, 114 (Schemer), 3 to 1, won; Little
Tom second, Otho third. Time, 2:16(4.
Fourth Race—Lightning stakes, $1,000,
for 2-year-olds, five furlongs. Sly Fox,
105 (Caywood), 7 to 5, won: Van Antwerp
second, Our Lizle third. Time, 1:04.
Fifth Race—Six furlongs. Sauterne, 103
(Caywood), 7 to 5,'wort; Rouble second.
Stanza third. Time, 1:18(4
Sixth Race—Six furlongs. Jim Hogg,
104 (Scherrer), 4 to 5, won; Belle of Ford
ham second, Sky Blue third. Time, 1:19.
TRAINS ANNULLED.
Montgomery, Ala., March 23.—A special
to the Advertiser from Troy ,Ala., says:
The rainfall for two days has been terri
ble. All trains on; the Central of Geor
gia and the Alabama Midland have been
annulled. Many ijridges haye been
Washed away and the Conecuh river la
out of its banka The rain ceased this
morning. No lose of life Is reported.
SLOANE IMPROVING.
Brunswick, Ga„ March 23.—A bulletin
from Jekyl Island at TO o’clock tonight
states that John Slaane is steadily im
proving.
NATIONAL CAPITAL GOSSIP
President McKinley Begins to
Show Weakness,
THE STRAIN TOO GREAT
And He Is Advised to Take Rest—Clearance
Papers Granted the Bermuda—News
paper Men at White House.
■Washing-ton, March 23.—President Mc
Kinley is showing the effect of the press
ure upon him for office. He gives to each
visitor a courteous hearing, but the tax
on lii- vitality is very severe. The office
si - hers are at the White House when the
doors ate opened i-n the morning, and they
remain in evidence until the president is
compelled through sher fatigue to seek
the seclusion of his private apartments.
The warm weather of the past few days
has added to the discomfort, and it has
been suggested that he spend on occa
sional day in rest at -the seashore or in
the country near the city. The president
is so conscientious, however, that he in
sists upon staying at Ills desk as long as
his strength will permit. His friends be
lieve hat if he does not take a brief out
ing he will break -down from overwork.
They maintain that he has been under a
terrific strain since his nomination last
Jun-. , and that It is not in human nature
to continue it indefinitely.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
Newspaper Men Cordially Greeted by the
President—Chinamen Also Received.
Washington, March 23.—President Mc
Kinley Informally received the body of
Washington correspondents and local
newspaper men to' I he east room this
afternootik Mere than 100 membens of
th press attended, and those who had
known Mr. 'McKinley here during his
congressional career renewed '.heir ac
quaintance. The president’s memory for
names and faces was tested to the ut
most, hu: he proved that his reputation
in that regard had not been exaggerated.
The president also received the ten
mem!) rs of the See Yups. \vh ) came front
San Francisco to present their grievances
to Y’ang Yu, Chinese minister. That they
were thoroughly conversant with d mo
cratic Ideas was shown by their maniner
of shaking hands with the president, a
decided contrast to the prostrate atti
tude In. which they lay for two hours yts
terday in the house of Yang Y’u.
CLEARANCE PAPERS
Granted the Bermuda—-Will Take a Cargo
of Munition to the West Indies.
Washington, March 23.—The treasury
department today directed that clearance
papt rs be granted the alleged flllbustc-r
irg steamer Bermuda, now at Fernan
dina, F!a. The Bermuda's captain took
the omnibus oath required Tty '‘.he" depart -
meet before the permission was given.
He was obliged to make affidavit that the
vessel would not transfer any part of
her cargo to any other vessel before
reaching her destination, nor 'take on
board more men than was rtquired to run
her. Copies of the affidavit were exam
ined by Secretary Gage before clearance
was ordered. The steamer will clear for
some port to the West Indies, not Span
ish, with a cargo of munitions of war.
SOME OFFICIAL CHANGES.
■Washington, March 23.—Theodore F.
Swayze, of New Jersey, has been ap
pointed chief clerk of the treasury de
partment, vice Logan Carlisle, resigned.
Mr, Swayze was formerly chief clerk of
the treasury department.
MaJ. Fred S, Brackett, appointment
clerk, vice Scott Nesbitt, transferred to
coast and geodetic survey as disbursing
clerk; Cap.L Rogers, of Ohio, chief of
division In the office of the auditor of the
war department, vice Eugene Speer, re
signed.
THRILLING EXPERIENCE.
Mysterious Accident to a Steamship’s
Rudder—All On Board the
Vessel Safe.
Charleston, S. C., March 23.—The Ward
lirve steamship Niagara, Capt. Crocker,
was towed :o Charleston bar this morn
ing. She had lost her rudder and her
passengers had spent an anxious week
aboard of her at sea. Aboard of her were
fifty-two passengers, most of whom were
tourists, bound from Nassau to New
xorK.
The ship left the former place at noon,
March 16. In addition to her passengers,
she carried a general cargo of sugar,
tobacco and hides. Her voyage north
was uneventful until last Thursday.
Capt. Crocker then suddenly discovered
tha-. she failed to respond to her rudder,
and an investigation discovered the rud
der to be bent and broken. Not the least
clue could be discovered as to when or
how the accident happened. A jury rud
der was rigged up and the Niagara at
tempted :o continue her voyage, but with
out much success. Thursday night the
vessel laid to trying to keep her head
to a heavy sea that was running. Friday
morning the British steamer Cairnlsia,
bound from Sapelo to Rotterdam, was
sighted and asked for aid. A hawser
was played out to the Niagara, and a
towing trip of 200 miles was begun. The
sea, too, was getting heavier, and the
first hawser soon parted, leaving the
Niagara in a perilous and helpless condi
tion for several hours. Her Jury rudder
was of very little service, and more than
once she was caught in the hollow of big
waves, rolling so badly as to greatly ex
cite the fears of her passengers. Satur
day another hawser was passed to her
by the Cairnisla. This time the rope held.
The two ships droped anchor off Charles
ton bar this morning. The Niagara will
be towed into port tomorrow, when her
passengers will be forwarded north by
rail.
The passengers on the Niagara ere all
very comfortably quartered aboard the
Niagara tonight. The officers of the ship
comtinue to protest that they have not
the least knowledge of how the accident
to the ship’s rudder occurred. Some of
them expressed the belief that the gear
had been tampered with before the ship
left Nassau, but no cause for their opin
ion Is assigned. The Niagara will remain
here until an ocean tug can ba sent to
tow her to New York.
HIGH WATERS IN GEORGIA.
Savannah, Ga., March 23.—A special
dispatch to the MornJng News from Al
bany, 'Blakeley and Amorlcus, Vepcrt
very high water In 'those sections of the
state. The Chatatiqua at Albany opened
today and ten companies of the Second
regiment en route to take part in the
parade were unable to get by Americus.
Railroad traffic has been greatly in
terfered with. Railroad bridges and
mill dams have b on sw-:pt before the
rushing waters. No loss of life is re
ported. At Americus several houses in
the lowland section of the city are sur
rounded by water and their occupants
are able to r ach them only by means
of boats.
BALLOTING FOR SENATOR.
Kentucky Legislature Now in the Midst
of an Interesting Era.
Frankfort, Ky., March 23.—The senate
and house balloted separately at noon
today for United States senator. The
vote in the senate was: W. G. Hunter,
republican. 13; J. C. S. Blackburn, silver
d- mocrat. 14; George M. Davis, gold dem
ocrat. 6; St. John Boyn r-publican, 3.
Necessary to choice 19. The house voted
Hunter, 03; Blackburn, 34; Davis, 6; S. B.
Buckner, gold democrat, 1; James B. Mc
-Cre-ary, democrat, 1; Boyle, 3; R. T. Tyler,
democrat, 1; W. J. St >ne, democrat, 1.
Representative W. A. Baird, who was
elected as a. gold democrat, voted for Dr.
Hunter. Stout, gold democrat, voted for
Blackburn. The republicans who re
fused Po vote for Hunter today issued a
statement declaring thait he is not the
leg-ad nominee and that St. John Boyle is.
The republicans are called on to vote for
Boyle at tomorrow's join: sessioh. The
statement closed with: "We have not
b en bought and are not far sale.”
MaJ. P. S. Johnson, chairman of the
silver democratic state cen:ral commit
tee, was at the sitat- house all morning,
urging silver democrats to vote for Gov.
Bradley for sena’tor.
JIM AND BOB MEET.
The Two Pugilists Will Never Meet
Again in tlie Ring—Corbet't Has His
Little Say Over the Result.
San Francisco, Cal., March 23.—James
J. Corbett and Robert Fitzsimmons will
never meet in the prize ring for another
championship belt. Tills question was
practically decided this morning when
the two pugilists met in the barroom
of the Baldwin hotel and talked over
their plans quietly ard dispassionately.
There were no threatening gestures and
no loud talking.
Corbett wait'd all the morning for a
meeting and when Bub arrived from Sac
ramento, Jim . sked him if lie- would take
a drink.
"I don't mind,” said Bob.
They walked to the barroom apd both
ordered non-intoxicants. They were im
mediately sui rounded by a curious
crowd.
"How do you f el?” asked Corbett.
”1 feel all right,” answered Bob.
“My arms pj-e a Htti? soreand stiff
and my thumb is very sore. The doctor
says it is broken.”
"I injured my left thumb early in the
game,” said Corbett, “when I caught
you on the foreh ad.”
"Mine was hurt in the second round.”
said Bob, “when I swung on your head
and landed too far around."
"I tell you. Bob. people told me you
were slow and easy. 1 wish those m■-n
who told me had been in front of you
on March 17. You won and beat me
fairly ar.d squarely.”
"Well." replied Fitzsimmons, "I can
assure you that you are the cleverest
man I ever met In my life."
"1 want to fight you again," said Cor
bett.”
"You must talk to my manager,” an
swered Fitzsimmons.
Julian overhearing the remark replied
that Bob had dur e enough fighting.
"He has fought mono than any man
living during a space of seven years,”
said Julian, "and he will not fight ngain
if I can rule. His wile wants him to
retlr and he will do so."
"Then I am to understand that there is
not another chance for me?” said Cor
bett.
"1 don’t think so,” replied Julian.
“Well, all right,” remarked Corbett in
a very down-hearted way, “but I should
like to have on - more try. You fought
Maher twice. Why not give me ano her
chance?"
“Because I have retired." said Fitz
simmons, "and 1 am going to settle
down.”
The conversation then, turned to the
past fight.
Corbe.t showed his left-hand, which
was considerably swollen, and Fitzsim
mons’ right thumb Is still bandaged.
The crowd' had now become so thick
that Corbett asked Bob Julian to step
to one- side to talk privately concerning
a second fight, and 'they moved to the
settee and spoke in whispers. Their con
versation was very short, and evidently
disappointing to Corbett, judging from
his looks.
After the meeting, Corbett sa-t down
quie'.ly at a table in the cafe and dis
cussed his plans for the future with a
repres. ntative of the Southern Associated
"I don’t think Fitzsimmons and I will
ever set together again,” said Jim. “He
Is evidently sincere in his determination
to retire. As I said before, I was in shape
to put lip the best fight of my life the
day I went agaln.-t Fitzsimmons in Car
son, although he defeated me fair and
square. You must admit, though, and
he admits himself, that I gave him the
first punching he ever got in Ills life. I
hurt my hands, bu,t aside from that 1 did
not carry away a mark. In other words.
I was the best man, and put up the best
fight until he caught me that heart
punch and cut off my wind. There will
always be a doubt in the public mind as
to who is the best man, and I'd give all
I possess in the world to get another
show at him. If !>e really means to retire
and does not fish after any soft marks
I will let him enjoy his victory In peace,
but should he take on another man be
fore giving me a chance to even the
score, you will see trouble.
"The Olympic club boys are going to
give me a testimonial next week In the
club rooms. Then I shall open up in Oak
land with my show. We will follow up
the route to the east, playing at all lead
ing cities and winding up in New York
about th« time Fitzsimmons reaches
there.”
NO NE/W TRACK'DY.
Washington. March 23.—-New York pa
pers contain the statement that the boat
belonging to the wrecked steamer St
Nazalre, which was picked up by the
steamer Creole, Is the same one from
which Copt. Berri and his three com
panions were rescued by the schooner
Hilda. Capt. Berri says he left six
bodies in the boat. That was the num
ber of bodies that floated out of the boat
when It was hoisted out of the water.
It was boat No. 3. and that was Capt.
Berri’s boat, so that the Creole’s find
discloses no new tragedy.
FtASSED THE ASSEMBLY.
Albany, N. Y„ March 23.—fThe Greater
New York charter was passed In the as
sembly this afternoon without amend
ment, and now goes to the senate for con
currence. The charter will pass the sen
ate this week and will then be sent to
the mayors of the cities affected.
HEAVY RAIN AT ABBEVILLE.
Montgomery, Ala., March 23.—A special
to the Advertiser from Abbeville, Ala.,
says: There has been no cyclone h-re.
These was the heaviest rain xq years.
No damage except to lands.
RELIEF FOR IRE SUFFERERS
In the Flooded District Received
at Memphis
A STAPLING STATEMENT
Of a Rive d§’tot-‘-n What of the One Hundred
(r
^.isand on the White, Arkansas
<7*
P.r,
$
ar.d Black Rivers?"
&
Loil.-, March 23.—Acting upon an
appeal from Gov. Jones, of Arkansas, for
•assistance, the Merchants' Exchange, of
this city, today subscribed $2,000 for the
relief of the flood sufferers. This money
end future donations will be handed over
to th Memphis r lief committee. State
ments from Mayor Clapp and Chief of
Police E. R. Moseley, of Memphis, were
received by the exchange. The mayor
says that ntarly all the refug cs com -
from Arkansas. The chief says that
Memphis has two funds to draw upm—
balances left from the yellow fever fund
and the cash donated for the Johnstown,
Pa., flood sufferers, nelth r of them b lag
exhausted.
TIh- following from the mayor of Hel
ena, Ark., was also read:
“Helena, Ark., March 23.
"The danger ixjlnt has b. n r ached
and pass-, d. We are In such shape now
that we can build our levee up as fast as
the river can rise. No matter how high
it goes we can keep above It. I there
fore wish to alay the alarm that has been
spread abroad regarding the situation
here.”
Appeals for aid were also received from
Critter.--] n and Mississippi o mntles, Ark.
Dispatches from many points in the
flooded section show but slightly varied
conditions from those of yesterday.
Slight rises are reported at New Madrid,
Mo.; Columbus and Paducah, Ky.; Cairo
and Metropolis, 111.
The greatest increase was at Padueah.
Th town is now an island and is only
reached by one railroad, the Illinois Cen
tra'). At noon today the gauge at .Mem
phis read exactly thirty-eight feet and
stationary, but ris s at points above and
below there show that the steady gang -
was caused by levee breaks at Hopefleld
and St. Francis, in Arkansas.
South of Helen!*, to C'hlcot, there is
scarcely any mere effort to save the
levees. At Modoc the break is now near
ly one mile wide. .
The levees in Mississippi are higher and
bett r aligned to resist the torrent than
those on the west bank. The worst break
is below Friar's Point, but levees restriot
the overflow.
A dispatch from Greenville, Miss., says
the Sunflower riv r is as wld • and full
of vvat r as the Mississippi at ordinary
stages and that the sluggish Yazoo river
is now a raging torrent. Rescue work
continues unaixited from Vicksburg,
Helena. Memphis fund Hickman. Ky.
St-amer expeditions never return fruit
less and It would seem that o-nly a start
has been made to save the suffrtng. The
misery undergone by these people is be
yond description. Naturally an Im
provident class, th y were not prepared
for th calamity that came so suddenly.
All are without exth clothing and many
had not eaten a morsel for twenty-four
hours when rescued.
A startling statement by a river pilot
Is publish d h re today. He says: “All
th- rescue work seems to be done on or
near the Mississippi river. N'Ahing is
known of the fate of'the 100.000 people In
the lowlands of the White, the Arkansas
and the black rlv rs In Arkansas. When
the d-ath roll is made up It will be large
ly from th se valleys.”
CAPT. BEN. H. SCREWS
Has Consented to Enter the Contest for
th - Democratic Nomination for
Mayor of Montgomery.
Montgomery, Ala., March 23.—It Is ru
mored on the streets tonight that Capt.
Ben H. Screws has conser.' id to head the
demands of his friends and become a
candidate for the d mocratie nomina
tion for mayor of Montgomery. Capt.
Screws is on • of the most popular and
most esteemed of Montgomery's eltiz-ns.
He has served the people her- well in
peace and war and during the Urn- s of
reconstruction he- rendered servlet that
is not forgotten. Capt. Scr-ws is an
accomplished lawyer and scholar and a
leading citizen. Mayor Ctlsby's friends
hod imagined that he would hav no op
position for the nomination and Cap'.
Screws' announcement will come as a
surprise to them.
Latter—The Constitution's corresjwnd
ent called on Capt. Screws at tils resi
dence tonight and he acknowl dged that
he had consented to broom" a candidate.
"I have been approach d by all classes
and conditions of people and you may
tell the boys yes; that I shall b In the
race.” i
AN OVERCAST SKV
Did Not Prevent a Monst r Parade in
Berlin—The Grand Review.
B rlin. March 33.—The skies were dull
and overcast this morning though thare
were occasional intervals of sunshine.
Th stre-ts were filled a' an early hour
with people anxious to witness the great
historic procession which was th - prin
cipal out-door feature 1 the day's pro
gramme of the celebration of the cen
tenary of Emperor William I.
The procession began forming in the
thiergarten at 9 o'clock and started at
30:30 a. m. on Its march. The rout- tak
en wasthroug'h the Enter den Linden and
out of the Bradenburg g.Jte to the Kaiser
Wilhelm I. monument, which was un
veiled yesterday, where the emperor with
'the empress, Empress Frederick, the
Prince Regent of Bavaria, the King of
Saxony, the King of Wurtemburg, th*
Grand Duke of Baden, th. Grand Duke
of Hesse, and other exalted personages,
awaited its arrival. As thep recession
filed past the royal party, the vast
crowds \vl\ich had assembled to witness
the review, kept up incessant round after
round of cheers. It is estimated that
upwards of 20.000 persons marched in the
procession, which was of the m ist gor
geous description. Many of the his
toric costumes worn by th - i>araders
were of costly material and ornamenta
tion aind of artistic design
SCOVEL ARRIVES IN NEW YORK.
N"W York, March 23.—Sylvester Seovel,
the newspaper correspondent, who wan
imprison d for thirty-one days in Cuba,
arrived this morning on the steamer
Seguranca from Havana. Mr. Seovel
was in the best of health and stated that
a great deal of sympathy had been
wasted on him. as he had been treated
with great consideration and kindness.BIRMINGHAM STATE
HE RALD.
TOLU ME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1897.
NUMBER 5 0
Horrible and Brutal Fate of Five
Persons.
ROBBERY NOT THE' CAUSE
An Old Man, Peaceably and Kindly Disposed,
Known to Have Money and His
Family the Victims.
Nashville, Tenn.. March 24.—Particu
lars of what appears to have been a hor
rible and brutal murder were received
here from Paradise Ridge early this
morning. Jacob Ade, one of the oldest
and best known farmers of the ridge
settlement, his wife, daughter and son,
and a little daughter of Henry Molrer,
were probably murdered and their bodies
cremated in Ade's house, which was
burned to the ground.
The theory of murder is strengthened
by the fact that all of the bodies were
found in the same room, but scattered
around over the space occupied by this
room. It' was first thought that the
old man was killed for his money, as he
was known to be well-to-do, and always
kept a supply of money on hand, but
whether this be true cannot be positively
stated now, as the old man's money, or
at least the ashes of what was once a
big roll of money, has been discovered
in the ruins of the house.
J Ml iLi JOICA ij
JACOB ADE.
AIKS. J. ADE.
LIZZIE ADE, a Red £0 years.
HENRY ADE, 13 years.
ROSA MOIRER, aged 10.
Jacob Ade lived fifteen miles from
this city near the Cheatham county
line. The house sits back half a mile
from what is known as the old Clarks
ville turnpike. It was a one-story frame
dwelling with five rooms; two rooms in
front, with a hallway between, and three
rooms running back, forming an ell. Old
man Ade and his wife usually occupied
the first room in the ell, just in the rear
of the front room, or parlor. There was
only one bed In this room. It was in
this room that all the bodies were found.
The first indication of the tragedy was
discovered at 10 o’clock last night by
Justice Simpson, who lives half a mile
from rhe Ade place.
There teas a sick man at Mr. Simp
son’s house, and about 10 o’clock Mr.
Simpson went out to get some water for
the man, when he saw that Ade's house
was on fire. He at once rode over to the,
scene, and found the house in ruins.
Finding no one near, Mr. Simpson’s sus
picion? were aroused and upon a closer
Inspection he saw the bodies of several
people in the ruins. He went to work
at once to rescue the bodies anu succeed
ed in getting four of thera out. These
proved to be the bodies of Mr. and Mrs.
Ade, Miss Lizzie Ade and Rosa Moirer.
After this Mr. Simpson rode around and
notified a number of the neighbors and
in a short while quite a crowd collected
about the ruins.
Henry Ade, the 13-year-old son of Mr.
Ad- was also missing, but his body could
not be found. It was first thought that
he had escaped to the woods, but a fur
ther search of the ruins of the house tlii4
morning disclosed his body.
The bodies o-f Mr. and Mis. Ade, Miss
Lizzie Ade and Henry Ade were burned
to a crisp. The limb.- and heads were
burned off, and, in fact, only a small
mass of flesh and bones remained. The
old man and his wife were more horribly
burned than the others.
The -body of Rosa Moirer was nat
burned so badly as the others. The lit
tle girl's legs were burned off; one arm
was raised over her head, and the hand
of this was gone. A portion of her skull
was missing, but the brain, which was
exposed, and the skin on her face was
only partially burned. This fact gives
further evidence in support of the the
ory of murder. Some of the people be
lieve that possibly- while the other mem
bers of the family were being murdered
this child escaped and was not killed un
til after the house had burned a while,
when the body- was thrown into 'the fire.
The fact that a part of her skull is gone
and the rest of the head perfect, with the
skin of her face only badly burned, lends
weight to the theory that she was
knocked in the head, probably with an
ax. One handltss arm was raised over
her head, and it may be that in trying to
protect herself she threw up her arm and
the hand was cu.t off by < he same blow
which tore away a part of her skull. The
blow paralyzed her muscles and the arm
remained in the piutecting position after
death had ensued.
Tne purpose or tne muraer was nrsi
thought to be robbery, but if this be cor
rect. the murderer was ill-paid for his
horrible crime. Ii» searching the ruins of
the house this morning an oyster can
was found under the place where a closet
once stood In Mr. Ade's sleeping room.
In this can the remains of what was
evidently a large roll of money was
found, together with four silver dollars,
which had been melted so that they were
sticking together.
Mr. Ade’s neighbors knew that he kept
his money in this closet. He was in the
city Monday. While here he told Jerry
Matthews that he had 82,000 and that he
did not know what to do with it. Mr.
'Matthews advised him to deposit it In the
Fourth National bank. Mr. Ade did not
say that he had the general whim.
iSh'-rlff Sharp was notified of the sup
posed crime early this morning and he,
with several deputies, went to the scene,
and they are there new working on the
case.
Disposing of the robbery theory, it Is
very hard to find a motive for the hor
rible crime, as Mr. Ade was a very popu
lar man and well liked by all his neigh
bors.
The only enmity which might have ex
isted between him and any of the people
living In that section was that which re
sulted from a charge he made against a
man who was arrested in Cheatham coun
ty a few years ago. charged with stealing
hogs from Ade. This man was tried be
fore a. magistrate in Cheatham county
and bound over to the circuit court.
There Is, however, no evidence against
this man which would In any way con
nect him with the murder.
Mr. Ade was 60 years of age. and had
lived In that community for twenty-five
years.
THE FILIBUSTERING TRIAL,
Now Being Held In Baltimore, Develops
Few New Features.
Baltimore, Md., March 24.—For two
hours this morning Capt. Hudson, of the
alleged filibustering steamer Woodall,
underwent a searching crois-examlna
tlon by counsel In the cose of'Dr. Jos J.
Luis, who Is on trial In the United States
district court on the charge of conspir
acy and sending a military expedition
against a friendly power. Counsel at
tempted in evry way possible to enrap
the captain into an admission that the
Spanish governmsnt was paying him for
his testimony.
He admitted that he had been engaged
in filibustering in 1880. His sympathies,
he said, were with Cuba, and when re
proached by Gen. Johnson, in banteiing
tone, for trying to imprison a Cuban
patriot (Itoloff b ing meant) the captain
declared that Roloff treated him shab
bily.
He said had he known that Roloff was
to go with him on the Woodall he would
have thrown over the whole matter.
'Michael V. O’Neill, of Baltimore, dealer
in nautical instruments, gave unimpor
tant testimony.
John Cronin, a fireman on the Woodall,
testified that he shipped to Yucatan for
three months. He understood by his con
tract that the vessel was to be used to
run up the small rivers to fetch fruit to
seaports. His first Intimation that all
was not right was when outside the
capes the vessel run without lights. When
the soldiers came aboard at Egg Harbor,
Cronin and the other members of the
crew registered a complaint. "We did not
seek the honor of being called heroes at
the risk of our necks.” he said.
The captain evidently feared trouble
with his crew, for when the water ran
short he manned the boat with Cubans
to go to a small island to procure a sup
ply. When at Progresso the malcontents
tiled to reach the United States consul,
but failed.
At New Orleans the United States com
missioner was sought out. They had
been badiy treated, and want d their
money and discharge. The money wan
paid the crew after a day or two,' Under
cross-examination, Cronin admitted that
for tthe past eight weeks he had been paid
$10 weekly by a ‘'Mr. Douglass." He pro
fessed Ignorance as to where the money
came from, and could not swear that
the Spanish gov.rnrmnt did or did not
furnish it.
John Hockney, fireman, told practically
the same story as Cronin. Galley, whom
he understood was superintendent of a
Pinkerton agency, had paid him $10 week
ly fur the past tight weeks, “so that I
could be on hand when the trial came
up.” *
William A. Lawrence, of Newport
News. Va., as engineer of the Woodall,
was next, but nothing new was devel
oped.
John Erickson, seaman, said he and
five ether members of the crew had been
paid $20 each by Roloff after the soldiers
came aboard. The crew had become dis
satisfied and did not much relish the
chance of being overhauled by a Spanish
warship.
Capt. Hudson was recalled. Ho was
asked by the prosecution about a let
ter written in March, 1890, by Dr. Luis to
John T. Smith. Hudson remembtred the
Utter and a legal battle arose as to the
admissibility of his recollection of its
contents. N
Counsel for Luis poirted out that great
evil might arise should the witness make
the slightest mistake. The letter should
be produced or the whole matetr thrown
out. Judge Morris overruled the obection
and Capt. Hudson said, to the best of his
recollection, the letter, which was very
brief, was as follows:
“Do you know if Capt. Hudson Is in
town? If he is, find out if he will take
another party and let me know."
At this point adjournment was taken
until morning. It is expected that the
case will be concluded tomorrow.
WHIRLED TO DEATH.
Horrible Fate of a Young Man In a
Laundry—Fell Into a PatentWringer
and Was Crushed to Death.
New Orleans, March 24.—A curious and
horrible fatality occurred here today at
the American laundry. A young man
working In the laundry accidentally fell
Into a machine used for wringing out
clothes and was crushed and whirled to
death in ten seconds. The wringer is a
machine built on the centrifugal princi
ple. It is a metal drum in the center
of which rotates a perforated reservoir
at the speed of 1,800 revolutions per min
ute. The unfortunate man was attempt
ing to shift a belt just above the wringer.
In getting down he slipped and fell par
tially into it. Hts right a^m was caught
in the cylinder and was torn from his
body at the shoulder and all the ribs on
.that side were found to bo broken when
he was taken from the fatal machine.
THE TURF.
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, March 24.—Fine weather
and a crowd of 4,000 people marked to
day's sport. The track was nearly
dry again and the sport was lively, only
two favorites winning. Among the vis
itors at the track was a large party just
from San Francisco, including Judge J.
J. Burke, Dave Gideon and Abe Daniels,
all of New York: W. H. Gocher, secretary
Trotting Association of Hartford, and
Harry Weldon, of Cincinnati.
First Race—Seven furlongs. Belle of
Killarney, 02 (Hirsch), 3 to 1, won; Nan
nie Lord. second; Princess Bonnie, third.
Time, 1:30'4.
Second Race—Half mile: Lillian Rus
sell, 100 (A. Barrett), 7 to 10, won; Kaiser
in. second; Lady Hanly, third. Time,
:50%
Third Race—Mile and an eighth Bonze,
140 (A. Clayton), 7 to 20, won; Carroll
Donder, second; Plutus, third. Time,
2:00%.
Fourth Race—One mile. Sharon, 107
(Scherrer). 4 to 1, won; Marquise, second;
Pete Kitchen, third Time, 1:43.
Fifth Race—One mile. Cadillac, 106
(L. Snden), 6 to 2, won; Mitt Boykin, sec
ond; Rolandis. third. Time. 1:45.
Sixth Race—Selling, seven furlongs.
Gluck, 103 (W. Dean), 6 to 1, won; Mike
Kelly, second; Tim Irven, third. Time,
1:31.
THE THREE FRIENDS.
Her Arrival In Port Awakens Pent-Up
Humors of Her Defammatlon.
Jacksonville, Fla., March 24.—The fam
ous steamer Three Friends arrived In
port this evening with the Mexican tug
Asturias and two barges In tow. She
crossed the bar early this morning, but
her trip up the river was slow on ac
count of her heavy tows.
It was yumored on the street Tuesday
that the Three Friends had turned her
barges and the tug over to the captain of
the tug O. D. Williams, from Miami, and
that she would proceed to Fernandlna
and ship arms and ammunition for Cu
ban soil. The theory of the tatlers Is
exploded, the next thing In their minds
will have to be something bearing on
the new tug that, has been brought up
the river by the Three Friends.
It has been suggested that the Asturias
Is about the right size for filibustering.
FATAL HEAD-ENDER.
Augusta, Ga., March 24.—An open
switch caused a head-end collision be
tween two trains on the South Carolina
and Georgia railroad Just across the river
from Augusta this afternoon, In which
J. T. Ewing, fireman on the Aiken ac
commodation, was killed. Passengers
were badly shaken but no other serious
damage done. The Aiken accommoda
tion coming to Augusta, ran Into a siding
colliding with a shifting engine attached
to a train of freight cars.
VERY SHORT OPEN SESSION
Of the Senate With but Little
Done.
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
The Arbitration Treaty Is Being Considered
List of Speakers on the Tariff Bill
-Civil Service Again,
Washington, March 24.—'The senate
spent only half an hour in open session
today, the remainder of the time being
given to the consideration of the arbitra
tion treaty behind closed doors. The ag
ricultural appropriation bill—one of, the
four money bills that failed at the last
session—was reported back in the shape
in which it passed the house last week,
and was placed on the calendar. It will
be acted on a: an early day.
Tlje attack upon the civil service law
and Its administration, which distin
guished yesterday's proceedings, was fol
lowed up today by the Introduction of
two bills, one by Mr. Allen, populist, of
Nebraska, for the repeal and annulment
of the law and of all executive orders is
sued under it; and t'he other by Mr.
Pritchard, republican, of North Carolina,
chairman of the committee on civil ser- ]
vice and retrenchment,, modifying its ap
plication to the government ptinting of
ltce.
A bill prohibiting the exhibition, in the
District cf Columbia, of kintttoscope illus
trations of prize fights, also prohibiting
the transports.ion of materials therefor
through the mails or through the avenues
of interstate commerce was introduced
by Mr. Hoar, republican, of Massachu
setts, and was referred to the judiciary
commib-ee.
At 5 p. m. the senate adjourned until
tomorrow.
While in executive session the senate
confirmed the nomination of Binger Her
man, of Oregon, to be commissioner of
the general land office, and Ernest G.
Timme, of Wisconsin, to be auditor of
the state department.
IN THE HOUSE.
Large audiences in the galleries, and
an unusually large attendance on the
floor of the house of representatives heard
the third day's general debate on the
tariff bill. The principal speeches of the
day were these of 'Messrs. Johnson, of
North Dako a; Grosvenor, of Ohio, and
Evans, of Kentucky, republican members
of the committee on ways and means. In
favor c»f the bill, and of McMillan, of Ten
nessee, the oldest democratic member,
against it. Other speakers were Messrs.
Fox, democrat, oil Mississippi; Sims,
democrat, of Tennessee; Williams, demo
crat, of Mississippi; Terry, democrat, of
Arkansas; Sayeis, democrat, of Texas,
anil Maddox, democrat, of Georgia,
against the bill, and by Adams, republl- i
can, of Pennsylvania, and Walker, re
publican, of Massachusetts, in favor of
it. The general debate will be closed
■tomorrow, when Russell, of Connecticut,
Dalzell, of Pennsylvania, Steele, of In
diana, and Payne, of New York, republi
can members of the committee on ways
and means, and Bailey, of Texas, the
democratic leader, will speak. The lat
ter makes the formal closing for the mi
nority, and Payne for the majority. Be
sides these, Messrs. Hepburn, republican,
of 'Iowa, and Richardson, democrat, of
Tennessee, will speak.
Mr. Browrlow, republican, of Tennes
see, introduced in the house a bill es
tablishing a department of commerce,
labor and manufactures. Its head is to
be a cabinet officer and the necessary
clerical force is provided for.
EVENING SESSION.
Mr. Livingston, democrat, of Georgia,
was the first speaker at tonight's ses
sion and indulged in a brief half hour’s
protest against the tariff bill.
A tariff that would bear equally upon
all sections of the country and treat all
interests alike, he said, all parties could
support. But this bill benefited manu
facturers at the expense of the masses.
Mr. Brundlge, democrat, of Arkansas,
spoke against the bill and Bromwell, of
Ohio; Belford, of New York, and Parker,
of New Jersey, all republicans, in favor
of It.
Mr. Castle, populist and democrat, of
California, attacked the bill most vigor
ously. The proper title of the monstros
ity, as he designated It, should be, In his
opinion, "to foster trusts and to pauper
ize and peonize the agricultural laborers
of the United States.”
The primary object of the bill, he said,
was neither to raise revenue nor to en
courage the Industries of the United
States, but was designated by its au
thors for the express purpose of enabling
the powerful trust to stand up the people
of the country and to legally rob them.
"We are today,” Mr. Castle said, "in the
lican into the most odious form of gov
ernment known in history—a moneyed
oligarchy. Rome, in her decline, had her
'Catallne,’ America has her ‘Hanna.’ ”
(Applause and hisses.)
Mr. Brown, republican, of Ohio, said
It was rot necessary to hold a long ses
sion of congress to execute the commis
sion placed in its hands by the passage
of the tariff bill. In the opposition to it
he said, we see the final struggles of an
other lost cause. iTlhe new member, as
well as the old could see, and did, in thld
struggle, the old contest between two
different systems.
Saying that he should vote for the bill,
Mr. Kerr, republican, of Ohio, criticised
the reciprocity feature as being, in his
opinion, fatally defective. The conces
sions proposed in the scheme, he said,
were so insignificant e mpared with what
we must ask in exchange, that any na
tion negotiating with us for them would
be without either dignity or sense. He
urged the substitution for the provisions
of the bill, the reciprocity section of the
McKinley bill, born in the brain of James
G. Blaine.
The last speech of the evening was de
livered by Mr. Oldstead, republican, of
Pennsylvania, in support of the bill, who
addressed six representatives on the floor
and a score of visitors in- the galleries.
At 11 o’clock the committee rose and
the house adjourned.
BANKS MUST PAY.
Frankfort, Ky., March 24.—The court of
appeals this morning reversed its former
decision on bank taxation and hereafter
banks will have to pay taxes the same as
other property. The state will have to
pay back thousands to the banks and
these institutions will have to pay large
amounts to the city and county tax re
ceiver. Heretofore the only tax on banks
has been a state levy.
FIVE CHILDREN CREMATED.
Ottumwa, la., March 24.—News reached
here this afternoon of the burning to
death of five children ofcJfiaank Penrod,
at their home at Laddsrole, near Here
last night. It Is not known how the
Are originated. The children were all
under 12 years old.
PROBLEM A KNOTTY ONE
'Traffic Associations Seem to Be
Divided
BECAUSE OF THE RULING
Windy City Associations Refrain From Business
—Views of President Fink, of the
Norfolk & Western.
Chicago, March 24.—All railroad traffic
association In this city refrained from
transacting any business today which had
to do with 'the regulation of rates or di
vision of business. Although the execu
tive officers and clerical force at the va
rious headquarters remained at their
desks, only routine business, and that
which does not come within the ban of
'the supreme court's decision, was at
tended to. Practically, all the associa
tions are in a stat of suspended anima
tion, “looking over the ground and wait
ing to find out where they stand,” as
Chairman Caldwell, of the Western Pas
senger association, expressed it.
The Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
railroad gave a sweeping notice of with
drawal today from membership In every
freight and traffic association. The gen
eral counsel of that company advised the
passenger officials no. to affiliate with
other roads. The notice includes the bu
reau- for the issue of mileage tickets
and half-fare clergy permits, which are
departments of the Western Passenger
association. At the same time it hits
upon uhe plan of appointing 13. D. Cald
well, chairman of the association, its
agent to attend to clergy permits and
mileage tickets, thus practically retain
ing thassociation machinery for the
sake of-economy and convenience. This
method of procedure will probably be
adopted by other roads which feel it in
cumbent upon themselves to sever all
official relations with other roads in as
sociation form. Such action would mean
that al.Ci ugh the associations will be dis
solved in compliance with the supreme
court decision, the officials and other em
ployes of the organizations will be re
tain d to attend to business which is not
prohibited. The Burlington also erased
i.s name from all joint rate sheets with
all other lines, which is an indication
that the company believes the decision
prohibits agreem nts with connecting
lines on through business.
The action of the St. Paul road today is
in effect a withdrawal from all freight
and passenger traffic associations. The
official announcement was made that
until the full text of-the decision was re
ceived and an opinion had been rendered
by the legal department, the company
will not participate in any association.
Its policy is that inaction is equivalent
to withdrawal, a.nd therefore within le
gal bounds, it is a question among rail
road mc-n whether the mileage and-clergy
bureaus come within the scope of the de
cision The Santa Fe company did not
er targe on its action of—yestwrdtryt"ttm
Ring its withdrawal from the freight as
sociation. This limitation was decided
upon in Che opinion, which is shared by
many able railroad attorneys, that as the
anti-trust law is to prevent the restraint
of trade and commerce only, the terms
cannot rightly be applied to passengers
and their transportation, which are not
commodities.
Vice-Chairman Baker, of the Western
Freight association's board of adminis
tration, received official notice today of
the Minneapolis and St. Louis road's
withdrawal from ali freight associations.
The members of the board of adminis
tration, sat in their offices reading the
newspapers and discussing the railroad
situation as presented therein. The
same condition of inertia prevailed at
the headquarters of the Western and
Trans-Continental Passenger associa
tions. Chairman Caldwell returned to
day from Washington and New York and
an important meeting was to have been
held, but the officials of roads who came
only discussed the matter Informally and
the- chairman said there would be a con
tinuation of the informality tomorrow.
No business was likewise transacted by
Commissioners Donald and Tucker, of
the Central Passenger and Central
Freight associations respectively.
PRESIDENT FINK,
Of the Norfolk and Western, Says the
Ruling Will Not Bear Washing.
New York, March 24.—President Fink,
of the Norfolk and Western railroad,
says in reference to the decision of the
supreme court in regard to the trans
MisBOuri Freight association that “the
railroads and newspapers appear to be
going too fast in considering that the
(Traffic association must disband by rea
son of the decision just rendered. The
real question is whether all are in re
straint of commerce as decided in the
trans-Missouri case. The decision ap
uj une spcum; caor aim u hui
fair to argue that under it all the Traffic
associations are illegal. Personally, I
do not think they are. Every railroad
has the right to endeavor to get the best
results from the conduct of Its own busi
ness. The Joint Traffic association case
will come before the supreme court In
volving a rehearing of all the points at
issue, and the position of the law made
then may change the entire aspect of the
situation. Without the Traffic associa
tion, It would be utterly impossible to
carry out the interstate commerce law
and the Interstate commerce commission
ers are the complainants In the present
Joint Traffic case. The decision ren
dered Monday In the trans-Missouri case
seems to me to be based on a misunder
standing of the facts, and If It were car
ried out against all the traffic associa
tions, would be a disaster to business,
the extent of which could not be calculat
ed. Not only would the railroads be un
able to see five days ahead, but as prac
tically all industries are dependent on
the transportation, all would suffer
greatly.
WILL NOT DISRUPT.
New York, March 24.—The board of
managers of the Joint Traffic associa
tion, at its regular session today, de
cided that, in view of the uncertainty
concerning the exact scope of the su
preme court decision in the trans-Mis
souri case, the Joint Traffic association
should continue In operation. The de
termination to maintain organization
was based not only on the views of the
several members of the board, but upon
the advice of James C. Carter, of coun
sel for the association, who this morn
ing notified Commissioner Blanchard
that the full text of the supreme court
I decision has not yet arrived, and that
until It had been received and fully con
sidered he deemed Inadvisable any ac
tion looking to the disruption of the as
sociation.
PHILADELPHIA'S STORM.
Phlladelph'a, Pa., March 24.—A severe
rain and wind storm, which was ac
companled by thunder and lightning, did
considerable damage In this city this
morning Among other damages, a por
tion of the loof on Berg Bros.’ clothing
E’.ere, Front street, was blown away, and
a torrent of rain swept through the open
ing and soaked the goods stored therein,
doing damage to the extent of several
hundred dollars. Awnings were blown
down, houses unroofed, and the telegraph
and telephone wires suffered severely.
The greatts: damage was done In the
northeastern section of the city.
MORE ENCOUNTERS.
In Which the Rebels, as Usual, Suffer
Considerable Boss.
Havana, March 24.—Gen. Linares re
ports that his command of 1,600 men,
comprising infantiy, cavalry and artil
lery, left Songo, In the province of San
tiaga de Cuba, and ait La.-al Rancho en
countered several parties of rebels un
der the leadership of Cebreco, wi th whom
they had a sharp engagement. The reb
els were finally forced to retire from
their positions, whiah were occupied by
the Spanish troops.
It Is reported tha.t the camp of Calixto
Garcia’s column has been captured by
the Spaniards, after a sever- struggle, at
the conclusion of which the Insurgents
were found to have left sixteen of their
number dead'on the field. The capture of
the camp was effected after a dashing
cavalry charge. The rebels were rein
forced by the band under Raid, and
awaited the troops at Balre Arriba, but
were obliged to retire to a point within
sigh.; of Jiguani. In the course of th.Be
journeys and the engagements the reb
els lost twenty-seven, men killed. The
Spaniards had one lieutenant and four
privates wounded.
By order of Capt.-Gen. Weyler, Isadel
Raefel Bourke, an Engli-h prisoner, who
has been for some time detained at Clen
fuegos, was yesterday released.
KILLED A DRUMMER.
Augusta, Ga., March 24.—A special to
the Chronicle from Edgefield, S. C.. says:
An unfortunate difficulty occurred this
afternoon between Mr. William Harris,
a drummer, and J. William Thurmond,
solicitor "f the Fifth circuit. In which
Mr. Harris was killed. A jury of in
out st l*as been empanelled and viewed
the body. Testimony will be taken to
morrow. N. O. Evans ar.d Croft E. Still
man have been retained to represent
Thurmond. Mr. Thurmond went at once
to the jail and surrendered himself to the
sheriff and is now in jail. Harris Is
the son of W. G. Harris, of Edgefield
county. Hairis charged that Th tl -
mond was the cause of his father's fail
ure to get appointment as magistrate
and the trouble grt w out of this.
NEWS FROM THE EAST.
Greek and Turkish Steamers Shut Off
From Crete—Neutral Zone to Be Es
tablished—Where Is the Hero?
Canea, March 24.—An Austrian Iron
clad today prevented a Greek steamer
and a sailing vessel from running the
blockade.
Another attempt was made by the
Turks today to convey a supply of pro
visions to the forts at Malaxa, but the
essay resulted in failure, the Turks be
ing driven off by the Christians who sur- !
round Malaxa and pursued them to the
environs of Suda. where the fire from
the Turkish warships compelled the Cre
tans to retreat. Another effort to sup
ply the forts with provisions will be
made tonight
A strong force of Cretans, it Is said,
are preparing for an attack upon Kis
s.ame, and the admirals commanding the
foreign warships have issued a warning
similar to that contained in Admiral
Canevaro's proclamation.
The towns-people of Canea have been
greatly encouraged by the proclamation
issued yesterday by Admiral Canevaro,
the Italian officer, who commands the
combined fleets of the powers, enjoining
the Cretans and Greek troops not to
attack certain forts.
A NEUTRAL ZONE
Decided Upon by the Powers—Denial of
a Statement From Greece.
London, March 24.—The Daily News
will say tomorrow that the powers have
accepted the proposal for the establish
ment of a neutral zone along the Greco
Turkish frontier and will require the
Greek and Turkish troops to withdraw
from tho territory included In the zone.
The Daily News will tomorrow publish
a dispatch from Athens denying the
statement that the Greek government is
in favor of making the island of Crete
a princedom under Prince George, of
Greece.
A'N OFFICIAL DENIAL.
London, March 24.—The officials of the
foreign office deny the statement made
by tlhe Chronicle that the powers have
accepted a proposal made by the sultan
that King George, of Greece, shall oc
cupy and administer the government
of Crete and appoin t a high commissioner
for tilhe island, together with the intima
tion by that paper that the king would
nominate his second son, Prince George,
as high commissioner, and that the cabi
net would discuss the matter today.
WHERE rs THE HERA?
Athens, March 24.—'Great anxiety is felt
here for the safety of the Greek steamer
Hera, which started for.Crete on March
19.*with a cargo of provisions for the
Greek troops in the island and has not
yet returned. On board the steamer were
the president of the chamber of deputies
and a number of other prominent per
sons.
WILL PAT T7P IN FULL.
Marysville, Mo., March 24.—The doors
of the Dekalb county hank failed to open
this morning: and a notice posted on them
stated that the bank was In the hands
of the secretary of state. The bank
has not transacted a heavy business late
ly and this action was taken at a meet
ing of the board of directors last night.
No statement of liabilities is given, but
the directors claim that every depositor
will be paid In full.
A PRO-GERMAN POLICY.
Pretoria, March 24.—Dr. W. J. Leyds,
secretary of state of the South African
republic, has been appointed to succeed
the late J. 13. Van Blokland as plenipo
tentiary of the South African republic to
the European governments. The new
minister will have his headquarters at
The Hague and It is understood that
he will-institute a pro-German policy.
MRS. CHARLES A. COLIJER DEAD.
Atlanta, Ga., March 24.—Mrs. Charles
A. Collier, wife of Atlanta’s mayor, died
here today of nervous prostration. Her
health was broken more than a year ago
by the social duties devolving on her as
the wife of the president of the Cotton
States exposition.
TO SUCCEED ABERDEEN.
London, March 24.—Mr. Labouchere's
Truth learns that the Duke of Lfteds will
be appointed to suoceed the Earl of Aber
deen as governor general of the Dominion
of Canada, the latter returning to Eng
land In 1898.
Every Bridge in Coffee County
Svy^t Away,
Jr—
TWELVE IN BARBOUR
/ —
Elba Hasg*. Fed of Water on the Pub.ic
/ ♦jare—Same in Geneva—No
. /£“ Lives Lest,
$ _
Montgomery, Ala., March 21 —Specials
to the Advertiser say: The town of
Elba, on Pea river, Is completely covered
with water. Early this morning water
was six feet deep on the public square
and flowing through every business house
and residence in the town.
Geneva, at the junction of Pea and
Choctawhatchee rivers, is in almost the
same condition, but we can get no relia
ble Information as to the exact condi
tions. Every bridge in Coffee county
has been sw’ept away. No mail has been
received at Geneva for a week. Th> re
is much suffering throughout the flood-d
territory.
Twelve bridges have been washed
away in Barbour county and much dam
age done to farming in this section. No
loss of life has been reported.
FIRST JOINT BALLOT.
Of Kentucky Legislature Was Without
Result—Hunter About to Be Dropped.
Frankfort, Ky., March 24.—The first
joint ballot f r United States senator
was taken'at 12:20 today. It resulted
in no election. The vote was: Hunter,
07; Blackburn, 49; Boyle, 6; Davie, 11;
Stone, 1; Tyler, 1; Buckner, 1.
Hunter gained one vote, that of Stout,
gold democrat. Stout was hissed by the
democrats.
By a vote of 09 to 07 the Joint session
adjourned although Hunter’s managers
sought to force another ballot, but Un
sound money democrats prey, nted it.
This is thought to be the end of Hunter.
UNEASINESS STILL FELT.
Paris. Tex., March 24.—At 7 o'clock this
morning' John Dickson filed a deed of
trust covering his stock of clothing, etc.,
to O. C. Conner, to the amount of $32,100.
A large portion of it is borrowed money,
du? to the Farmers' and Merchants' bank
and to Leal capitalists and wholesale
merchants in other cities. The failure
was catfced by the closing of the Farm
ers’ and Merchants' bank yesterday.
Great uneasiness still prevails and money
is Ft ill 1> mg drawn from banks by de
positors though not in any large amounts.
NOT ANXIOUS FOR IT.
Great Britain Indifferent to the Treaty
Since Its Overhauling by the
the Senate.
London, March 24.—A high government
official expressed to a representative of
the Southern Associated Press today the
opinion that the United States senate
had taken all of the meaning out of the
arbitration treaty, and asserted his be
lief that the British government would be
extremely unlikely to accept it.
"We have done without an arbitration
treaty hitherto,” he added, "and it will
not make much difference if we continue
to do so for the present.”
It Is learned at the foreign office that
diplomatic relations between Great Brit
ain and Venezuela have not yet been re
sumed and that the question of their re
sumption is not likely to be discussed
until tile Venezuelan arbitration tribunal
has finished its work. Dr. Juan Pletrie,
the present Venezuelan minister to Ger
many and Spain, the foreign office offi
cials say has not been accredited to
Great Britain as has been asserted.
STARTLING STATEMENT
Of the Financial Condition . f the De
funct Commercial Bank of Selma
—Liabilities, $1,000,000.
Montgomery, Ala., March 24.-.A special
from Selma, Ala., to the Advertiser says:
A meeting of depositors in the Commer
cial bank, which failed Dec. 30, was held
tonight to see how the affairs of the bank
stood. Lewis Jeffries, one of the as
signees, appeared afid made the first
statement as to Its condition that has
been made since the bank failed Ho
placed the liabilities at $1,000,000 and es
timated the assets at $52,266, which are
subject to a reduction of $25,000 for money
deposited during the three days prior to
the closing of the bank. The books show
deposits to be $174,000, which is almost
double the amount heretofore estimated.
The depositors will not realize over 20
.per cent.
NEWSPAPER CRITFCTSM.
Of the Action of the Senate In the Arbi
tration Treaty Matter.
London, March 24.—'The St. James Ga
zette, in a leading editorial upon the ac
tion of the United States senate In
adopting the amendments to the arbitra
tion treaty reported by the foreign’rela
tions co-mmKtee, says:
■’The unanimous vote of the senate has
wrecked :ho arbitration treaty, and thi3
should be a warning to the premature
philanthropists on this side. The sen
ators carried their point with a refine
ment of the pettifoggers’ cunning which
enabled them to profess friendship with
the principle of arbitration, while they
smother the treaty with amendments
which made it ridiculous.”
The Westminster Gazette thinks the
senate’s action a very disappointing and
disconcerted result of all the efforts of
Secretary Olney and Uord Salisbury.
The anti-English feeling underlying the
action of the senate, the paper odds, is
the most unpleasant aspect of the mat
ter.
GERMANY AbKRT.
Berlin, March 24.—The National Zel
tung, an inspired organ, publishes an
article on the Transvaal situation. In
which it says, in view of the fact that
Great Britain is sending reinforcements
of troops Into South Africa, Germany
will watch developments with the closest
Interest.
SUPPRESSED ITS PUBLICATION.
Pretoria,March 24.—The Transvaal gov
ernment has suppressed the publication
of the Johannesburg Star, the leading
newspaper in the Band, in consequence
of that journal's criticism <>f the ad
ministration.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., FRIDAY, MARCH 2f>, 1897.
NUMBER 57
Sought to Be Upheld By Sena
tor Chilton
IN HIS AMENDMENT
To the Arbitration Treaty—Morgan Again Ad
vocates Chilton's Propostion—Tariff
Discussion Occupies the House.
Washington, D. C., March 25.—'Among
■the bills introduced and referred was one
by Mr. Foraker, of Ohio, to provide a
modem organization of the artillery of
the army. ,
Mr.: Pa=oo presented in an amended
form .the credentials of John A. Hender
son as senator from the state of Florida,
under appointment by the governor un
til the next meeting of the state legis
lature in April next.
Mr. Hoar stated why no action had
be-n taken by the committee on privileges
and elections in the matter of the ad
mission of senators, appointment of gov
ernors- He supposed that by the retire
ment of Us chairman (Mr. Mitchell, of
Oregon) he (Mr. Hoar) being next in
commi ttee, might act as temporary chair
man, but he supposed that the inattPi of
tilling vacancies in committees would be
settled- in a day or two, and had not
'.hough it wise to call a meeting of th?
committee on privileges an elections with
three or four vacancies in it. He would,
however, call a meeting of the committee
at once if senators interested in the mat
ter desired actiaif to bo taken while |
those vacancies existed. His own opin
ion was that it would be better to wait
until the committee vaeanci.s were filled.
Mr. Pasco disclaimed any idea of wish
ing to find fault with 'the committee on
privileges and elections, and on his mo
tion Mr. Henderson's credentials were re
ferred to it.
At twenty minutes past twelve, on
motion of Mr. Davis, republican-, of Min
nesota, acting chairman of the commit
tee on foreign relations, the senate pro
ceeded to the consideration (with closed
doors) of the arbitration treaty.
At 3 p. m. th'e doors were re-opened
and the unfinished business—the bank
ruptcy bill—was tak n up, being read
in extenso.
The reading of the blii occupied exactly
one hour. Some formal amendments
were offered by Mr. Hoar and were agreed
to.
Mr. Nelson, republican, of Minnesota,
offered n substitute for the bill, which
was also read In full, and when it was
concluded the senate at 4:20 p. m. ad
journed until tomorrow.
Three minor nominations were also con
firmed by the senate today of local in
terest to New England and Ohio.
The debate on the arbitration treaty
this afternoon was of short duration.
•Mr. Chilton spoke for almost an hour
on- his amendment to the first article
which amends that article »o as to pro
vide that only such masters shall be sub
mitted to arbitration as the senate -then
In existence may deem proper fon arbi
t ration.
Mr. Chilton advocated his amendment
wi h a great deal of warmth and con
tended that 1f, as has been asserted, the
terms of the treaty were Interpreted as
meaning this, there could be no good ob
jection raised to the Insertion of words
that made that Interpretation unmistak
able. It was In the Interest of clearness
and should be accepted as such by all
friends of the treaty.
Without his modification Mr. Chilton
said the United States might In the fu
ture be charged with violating Its obli
gations if It refused to submit certain
questions to arbitration when they arose
us matters of difference between the two
countries. He did not want the United
States to be placed in an embarrassing
por-itioji' of this kind and deemed it the
part of prudence lo make the text of
the convention so perfectly' plain that
there could be no quibbling over what
it means or what the senate had In
mind when the treaty was agreed to. if
it should be agreed to. The debates were
secret, and in the future the cold, hard
text of the treaty would alone be ac
cepted as the expressions of what vas
In'.ended when the convention was rati
fied and proclaimed to the world.
Mr. Morgan again spoke in favor of
the amendment and took occasion to ex
press his displeasure at any proposed
treaty with Great Britain, that had Ur
its purpose any general scheme of arbi
tration. The whole thing was a snare
and a pitfall, but if there were sufficient
votes In the senate to ratify the conven
tion Senator Morgan said he wanted it
made its nearly perfect as possible.
Messrs. Gray, Davis, Hoar and Dodge
interrupted Mr. Chilton with questions
tendlrtfe to show that his conclusions
were erroneous. They also injected state
m-~nitsSm support of the committee amend
ments, which had been agreed to, as
being sufficient 'to cover every possible
criticism that could be made against
the treaty.
Senator Orav took the floor In opposi
tion to the Chilton: amendmer.it after Mr.
'Morgan had concluded, but not desiring
to go on today, the senate came out of
executive session and resumed the con
sideration of legislative business.
IN THE HOUSE.
This was the last day of general de
bate on the tariff bill in the house of rep
resentatives under the order adopted last
week, but because Mr. Bailey’s throat
would not permit him to speak this af
ternoon. an agreement was made to give
two hours to general debate just before
taking the vote next Wednesday, which
■will be occupied by hsm=elf and Mr.
Dingley.
The proceedings were unusually Inter
esting and they were listened to gener
ally by a large number of members and
crowded galleries. .Speeches against the
bill were made by Mesrs. Talbert, demo
crat, of Sou:h Carolina; Clark, democrat,
of Missouri; Maguire, democrat, of Cali
fornia; Guam, populist, of Idaho; Simp
son, populist, of Kansas: Cox. democrat,
of Tennessee; McRae, democrat, of Ar
kansas; Burke, democrat, of Texas;
Dentz. democrat, of Ohio, and Doarmoud.
democrat, of Missouri; and In its favor
by Messrs. Tawney, republican, of Min
nesota; Dalzeil. republican:, of Pennsyl
vania: Russell, republican, of Connecti
cut, and Payne, republican, of New York,
members of "he comumlttee of ways ami
means. and by Cow. republican, of Penn
sylvania; Curtis, republican, of Kansas;
Colson, republican, of Kentucky, and
Hawley, republican, of Texas.
At 5 o’clock tlve house took a recess un
til 8 o’clock tonight, the night session to
witness the lost general debate, except
two hours on Wednesday next, just prior
to taking the vote on the bill.
NIGHT SESSION.
At the evening session the debate on
the tariff bill was continued.
Mr. Skinner, populist, of North Caro
lina, In supporting the bill said that If
for the past twenty-five years the south
had been trying for protection as the
north and east had, tt would today be
the most prosperous section of the coun
J
try. The bill had Its defects and he did
not think It would bring prosperity with
out supplemental financial legislation.
Revenue, in his opinion, sufficient to sup
ply deficiencies could be sustained by
reducing by one-third o{ the salaries of
all government employes or by a proper
income tax.
Mr. Myers, democrat, of Louisiana,
said that some of the duties inferred
by the bill might be erroneous and ex
cessive, but as a representative of Louis
iana, representing a great and suffering
Interest he should support the sugar
schedule.
Other speakers in favor of the bill were
Messis. Howe, republican, of New York;
Reeve and Prince, republicans, of Il
linois; Bartholdi, republican, of Missouri;
Hamilton, republican, of Mississippi, and
Crumpacker, republican, of Indiana;
and against it were Messrs. Settle, demo
crat, of Kentucky; Campbell, democrat,
of Illinois; Gaines, democrat, of Ken
tucky; Ridgeley, populist, of Kansas, and
Fitzgerald, democrat, of Massachusetts.
Mr. Barrowrs, republican, of Massachu
setts, presented the protest of the Mas
sachusetts Library club against any tax
on books.
At 11 p. m. the house adjourned.
DIED OF HYDROPHOBIA.
Wheeling, TV. Ya„ March 25.—William
Huggins died this morning of hydro
phobia. Ho was bitten by a dog last
January and seven others were injured
at the same time. Two of them were
successfully treated at the Pasteur In
stitute, New York, and the death of Hug
gins has caused much alarm among the
friends of the ones who were bitten. A
popular subscription Is being taken to
send them to New Y'ork, but some fear
that it is too late. The Pasteur insti
tute has been telegraphed regarding the
matter, but no reply has yet been re
ceived.
AT THE VATICAN.
Rome, JIarch 25.—The pope pave an
audience today to a number of Americans
who are on their way home from a pil
grimage to Jerusalem. After celebrat
ing mass his holiness pronounced an al
locution highly praising the Catholics of
the United States, and distributed sou
venirs among the pilgrims.
PASSED THE HOUSE.
Albany, N. Y.. March 25.—The anti
trust bills Introduced by the Lrxow trust
investigating committee have passed the
assembly without amendment. They
now go to the senate for action.
11 THE HUS OF THE JOB!
Is the Case of the Government
vs, Joseph L. Luis.
NO TESTIMONY OFFERED
By the Defense as They Assert the Government
Has Failed to Make Out a Case—
The Judge’s Charge.
Baltimore, Md„ March 25.—The trial o*f
Dr. Joseph J. Luis, the alleged Cuban
fllibusterer, was concluded today in the
United States district court. The de
fense, believing that the prosecution had
not made out a case, placed no witnesses
| on the stand. Two hours were allowed
the counsel for each side in which to ar
gue the case, after which Judge Morris
instructed the jury.
'T'he jury retired at 3:30 and had not
reached a verdict at a late hour tonight.
Should a decision be arrived at tonight,
it will bo sealed and presented to the
•court in the mornifig.
When counsel for the defense stated
that they would present no witnesses, a
long type-written statement of the law
on the subject of filibustering was of
fered with the request that it be sub
mitted to the jury. District Attorney
Marbury opposed the request, but the
paper was admitted by the judge. He
said that the statements of law were
correct in the abstract and that he should
trust to the understanding of the jury
and grant the prayers as they stood in
connection with Instructions, which he
should give in the case.
The prayers of the counsel for the de
fense showed that it would not attempt
to deny that Dr. Buis had been instru
mental in furnishing money for the fit
ting out of the Woodall, nor, indeed, that
he intended that it should carry arms to
Cuba, and men who intended to enlist in
the Cuban army. But in doing all this
he was not violating the law. It is per
missible for a Vessel to carry arms and
merchandise for the purpose of supply
ing insurgents In a country with which
the United States Is at peace, It was ar
gued, and tt Is also permissible to carry
men who Intend to enlist in the rebel
army either individually as passengers,
or in a body, providing they have not
been organized in the United States as a
.military expedition.
It was maintained that the evidence
did not show that Dr. Luis agreed to
have the Woodall carry an organized
military expedition, although he might
have agreed to have the Woodall used
to carry men and arms for Cuba.
Judge Morris, in his instructions, said
that the crime of conspiracy had been
charged. It was not necessary that all
of the parties charged were proved to
be in the conspiracy. He said the proof
that Dr. Luis and any of the others con
1 spired together would be sufficient to
convict Dr. Lul3.
"As to the fact of an agreement be
tween Luis and Roloff for some secret
purpose,” continued the judge, “you
have very direct evidence, if you are
to believe Capt. Hudson. Capt. Hud
son was a co-conspirator and his evi
dence should be carefully scrutinized.
It should not be conclusive unless cor
roborated by other evidence or other cir
cumstances which give it the appearance
of truth.
“If satisfied that Luis and Roloff
agreed to carry a body of men from the
United States to Cuba, then you must
inquire whether it was a military expedi
tion. To make a military expedition it
is not necessary that the men be uni
formed or that they have a military or
ganization, such as is observed in a reg
ular army. If they are subject to of
ficers, are armed and have sufficient or
ganization to embark and land as a body)
for military purposes, it is sufficient. It
is not necessary either that they main
tain a separate organization after land
ing. They may join other forces.
“It is no crime to transport as individ
uals men who intend to enlist in the in
surgent army, nor is it wrong to trans
port arms as merchandise.
“1’he United Stafes Insists upon the
neutrality of other powers a9 between
the government and insurgents and it is
a point of national honor they they
should maintain such neutrality.”
The only evidence to directly connect
Dr. Luis with a military expedition seems
to be letters and these are really not con
sistent with the position of the defense
in the case.
AVONDALE MILL
Will Be Btailt and In Operation By
the Incoming Year.
B. B. COMER IS AT THE HEAD
With an Able Secretary, General Manager and
Board of Directors It Means Success—Full
and Representative Meeting of the
Stockholders at Commercial
Club Last Night.
The Avondale mills are an assured fact
for Birmingham. A president, secretary,
general manager and board of directors
have been chosen whose very names are
synonomons with success.
That Birmingham is an iron center has
already been proven to the world and It
is now certain that she will demonstrate
the fact that within her gates can be
manufactured cotton cloths as cheap, if
not cheaper than any other city in the
world.
In the very heart of the cotton produc
ing section of Alabama, with coal at her
very gate at one-third the cost to any
other manufacturing city in the coun
try, with a full supply of people where
from compet' nt help can be obtained,
there is no reason why the assertion
should not be borne out and It will be.
The meeting in the parlors of the Com
mercial club last night was a gathering
of Birmingham’s most representative
business people and on every face was
t ■ li * seen a feeling of confidence, indi
cating a successful finale to the under
taking about to be launched.
As Chairman Robert Jeinison stated,
the Avondale mills will prove a boon to
Birmingham, inasmuch as it will be the
incentive to other like manufacturing in
dustries. It will prove a blessing to
hundreds of families, as many now idle
will be given employment.
Pursuant to announcements in the
daily press of the city, the subscribers of
the “Avondale mills'’ met in the parlors
of the Commercial club.
Shortly after 8 o’clock, Mr. M. V. Jo
seph, president of the Commercial club,
called the meeting to order, stating the
object was to permanently organize. He
named Mr. Robert Jemison as temporary
chairman. Mr. Jemison was chosen and
on taking the chair thanked the meeting
for the honor conferred. He had the
honor of being chairman of the commit
tee and had been deeply interested. The
mill would prove a great benefit to many
families of the city and suburbs. The
amount had been subscribed and $100,000
of bonds were to be issued.
The first business in order is the mat
ter of organization.
Mr. Wm. A. Walker named Mr. David
Trainer as secretary of the meeting. He
was elected.
The chair then announced that each
rhare of stock was entitled to a vote on
permanent organization. The chair an
nounced a quorum of stockholders pres
ent.
Mr. Walker stated that a declaration
of Incorporation of the mill had been filed
and ail necessary steps taken, up to the
present meeting. A board of directors
should be named, not less than three or
more than nine to comprise same. He
further stated that the law required in
such organization that E0 per cent of the
capital stock should be subscribed. The
proposed capital stock of this company
is $500,000, of which $251,000 has been
subscribed to the probate judge.
'The chair tihen stated that an election
of a board of directors was In order.
Mr. Walker moved a committee of
seven be appointed to select a board of
directors of nlaa. Mr. B. Steiner seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
The chair appointed the following: Wil
liam A. Walker, T. J. Caldwell, William
Hood, Rufus N. Rhodes, B. F. Roden, H.
S. Chadwick and W. G. Estes.
The committee retired and an informal
recess was taken.
The committee reported the following
gentlemen to comprise th11 board of di
rectors: Messrs. B. B. Comer, Robert
Jemison, W. J. Milner, David Trainer and
M. V. Joseph, Birmingham; C. H. Hutch
1nt-, Worcester, 'Mass.; D. M. Thompson,
Providence, R. I.. and J. P. Wilson and
H. S. Chadwick, Charlotte, N. C.
Mr, Walker suggested that each stock
holder vote by ball >t naming ihe number
of shares voted.
Mr. Uliodes moved rihe chair call the
names of the stockholders. Carried.
Messrs. B. Steiner, W. J. Boles and
Jonas Schwab were appointed tellers. The
'lellpi-3 reported that 807Vi shares were
voted for Hire nine gentlemen named
and 50 shares against.
Tihe following officers were then sug
g sted to be voted for: pr-sldent. secre
tary, treasurer, general manager.
Mr. Chadwick moved that the offices
of president and treasurer be consoli
dated. Carried. This motion was made
in the interest of economy.
'Mr. B. B. Comer was nominated by
Mr. Chadwick for president and r.-reas
urer.
(Mr. Walker moved that no other nomi
nations being made the secretary cast
the vote of the stockholders for Mr. B.
B. Comer us president and treasurer.
Carried-.
The reordlary did so.
Mr. Comer said he thanked '.he meet
ing for the honor conferred and would
do all in his power to make the mill a
success. (Applause.)
dir. E'teiner moved that David Trainer
bo mam d for secretary.
Mr. Coiner off-red as a substitute that
Mr. David Trainer be elected general
manager.
On motion the chairman cos'. the vote
cf the meeting for (Mr. David Train r.
Mr. B. Steiner moved that Mr. David
Train r be elected secretary, seconded.
Mr. Barker moved that the office be
left vacant for a time, to be filled leiT-n
by the board of directors. Not seconded.
Ivlr. Steiner's motion prevailed and the
clinir cast lire vote accordingly.
The secretary read the articles of in
corpo radon.
Mr. Walker moved that Mr. Comer be
appointed to receive the subscription lists.
Carried:
Mr Walker a.’so moved the board of di
rectors formulate a constitution and by
laws governing th-e mill.
The chairman then sta'bd that he felt
elated over the succes of thp undertak
ing which he know would prove of vast
benefit to Birmingham. Th' committee
have secured $100,000 worth of stock, and
have undertaken to secure $10,005 -more as
a safeguard in the eveiK of the death of
any subscriber.
Mr. E. F. Enslen offered a motion of
profound thanks to the cotton mill com
mittee of the Commercial club for their
untiring efforts in the good work now un
der way. Carried.
(The chair, on behalf of the committee
returned thanks for the resolution, fully
appreciating same, stating the commit
tee was under obligations to such men as
Mr. fCnslen for their assistance.
Adjourned.
NOTES.
The Avondale Land company having
subscribed twenty-two acres of land as
a site for the mill, with privilege of wa
ter from their mammoth. Inexhaustible
springs, but shows the spirit of liberality
always manifested by that corporation.
Fngineers were on the ground yester
day making a survey of the land pre
paratory to mapping out same. This
was very encouraging.
The cotton mill committee of the Com
mercial club have worked Well In the
getting up of the Avondale mills nnd
Chairman Jc-mlson. on behalf of that
committee, states they have not oeased
in their work in the getting up of sub
scribers to the stock of same.
A SERIES OF FIGHTS.
Two Well Known Birmingham Young
Men and a Drummer Have an
All-Day Fighting Scrap.
Two well known young men of the city
and a traveling man became involved in
an affray or rather a series of fights yes
terday. The first trouble is said to have
originated in a house of ill-repute over
one of the inmates. For a time the men.
refrained from violence. They met later
in a saloon on Second avenue and Twen
ty-third street, where the traveling man
claims to have been assaulted by the
other two. He called for a policeman
and preferred charges against his as
sailants.
Officer Johnson went to the saloon and,
while engaged in preparing the bonds
with his back to the two city men, they
again assaulted the drummer and beat
him up considerably. All three were ar
rested for fighting in the city'limits, but
they made the necessary bonds and were*
not locked up. The first fight occurred
about 11:30 o’clock and the second one
Just before 12 at noon.
Later on, last night, the men were
walking along the street near the opera
house, when one of the citizens and the
drummer engaged in fight No. 3. The
other Birmingham boy is said to have
stood off and roundly cursed and tongue
lashed the traveling man. He will be
tried for disorderly conduct this morning
in a separate case.
One of the city aldermen is said to have
seen the last affray and will appear
in court as a witness for the city. The
men are said to have been drinking all
day and were very drunk last night.
NOTED PITCHER DEAD.
Petersburg, Va„ March 25.—William H.
Quarles, of this cityt the widely known
base ball pitcher, died very suddenly this
afternoon. He had a surgical operation
performed on him yesterday ^t-the Home
for the Sick and death folloifed as stat
ed. The deceased had recently had places
offered him by several clubs and at the
time of his death he had these offers unJ
der consideration.
ALL VESSELS LIABLE
To a Rigid Examination as to Their
Cargoes When In Cretan
Waters.
London, March 25.—In the house of
commons today Right Hon. George N.
Curzon, under foreign secretary, said
in reply to an inquiry on the subject,
that British ar.d American merchantmen
and vessels of the same, class of other
nationalities consigned to agents at ports
in Crete, were liable to be searched,
should they attempt to reach their des
tinations despite the blockade of the
island, and would also run the risk of
being prevented from delivering their
cargoes, at the discretion of the admirals
commanding the foreign warships in
Cretan waters. The blockade, Mr. Cur
zon said, waa a measure of police en
forced with the consent of the sovereign
power.
Mr. Curzon also said that Sir Philip
Currie, British ambassador at Constan
tinople, had been instructed to urge upon
the representatives of the powers, as
well as upon the porte, the idea that the
withdrawal of the Turkish troops from
Crete would greatly facilitate the with
drawal of the Greeks from the island.
WILL BE PUNISHED.
Constantinople, March 25.—The sultan
has ordered the summary dismissal and
immediate arrest of the Turkish officials
in Tokal, in Asia Minor, where a few
days ago 100 Armenians were massacred
and a special commission will be formed
before which they will be tried.
FELL FROM A TANK.
Arthur Lawrence, a Negro Fireman,
Sustains Serious Injuries at
Boyles.
About 10:30 o'clock last night Arthur
Lawrence, a negro flremq.fi on the Louis
ville and Nashville, fell from the tank
or tender of his engine at Boyles Station
and received very dangerous Injuries.
The engine waa taking water at the
water tank when Lawrence slipped and
fell to tlie rocky ground, striking the
timbers of the support of the tank. A
deep and dangerous cut was inflicted on
his head and his hip severely injured. It
is thought that he sustained internal
injuries.
He was brought to this city and taken
to his home on Fourth avenue, L tween
Fourteenth and Fifteenth streets in the
Warner-Smiley company’s ambulance.
It is said that Lawrence was also in
jured in the wreck betv.-een the Southern
and Louisville and Nashville trains at
North Birmingham when Engineer Bry
an was killed and that this was his first
trip since then.
FIRST COMMENCEMENT
who made an excellent address. The
Of Montezuma University Medical Col
lege, Bessemer—Five Graduates.
Bessemer, March 25.—(Special Corre
spondence.)—Rebie hall was filled to over
flowing tonight by the friends of the
Montezuma University. The occasion
was the first annual commencement of
the medical college.
Prayer was offered by Dr. E. H. Haw
kins. Introductory remarks were made
by President Hove.t, after which W. C.
Ward, of Birmingham, was Introduced,
able address of Mr. Ward made a pro
found Impression.
Dr. A. A. Carson, dean of the medical
college, made an able address to the
graduating class, and delivered diplomas
to the five young men who have con
cluded the course of medical studies at
this college.
Splendid music was Interspersed
throughout the exercises by the Mon
tano band.
'THE CITY TAX COT,LECTOR.
Mayor Evans Has Appointed Mr. J. T.
Garrettson to That Place.
At a recent meeting of the mayor and
board of aldermen. Mayor Evans was
authorized to appoint a tax assessor for
the city to work In conjunction with
the county tax collector. Mayor Evans
has appointed Mr. J. T. Garrettson to
that position and he will begin work
early next week.
The selection is a good one and Mr.
Garrettson is sure to treat the property
owners fairly and justlv.
TO APPEAL FROM DECISION
Attorney General McKenna In
structs a District Attorney.
THE BOARD OF MANAGERS
Of the Joint Traffic Association Will Make a
Fight—Withdrawals Now In Order
Chairman Morrison Talks.
Washington, D. C , March 25.—Attorney
Genera 1 'McKenna has directed District
Attorney McFariane of New York to take
an appeal from the decision of the cir
cuit court of appeals delivered at New
York last Friday, in favor of the Joint
Traffic association, composed of eastern
trunk lines.
This case Is closely allied to that of
■the trans-Missouri Freight association. In
which the United States supreme court
last Monday held that the anti-trust law
was oonsdtutlonal. The same questions
are involved as in the trans-Missouri case
with the addition that the Joint Traffic
association is charged with violation of
the anti-pooling clause of the Inter-state
commerce act. The circuit court of ap
peals held that tile United States had
no right to go Into court in. an attempt to
dissolve the association under either the
anti-trust or inter-state commerce acts,
it is contended at the department of jus
tice that even the dissenting opinion of
-the supreme court did not sustain points
sustained by the circuit court of appeals.
When the papers in the appeal arrive
here the attorney general will ask the
supreme court to advance the case so
that it can be heard at the present term.
BOARD OF MANAGERS
Of the Joint Traffic Association Continue
To Do Business.
New York, March 25.—The board of
managers of the Joint Tratlic association
has Issued schcduhs of rates and differ
entials from Detroit and Toledo to the
seaboard, which take effect immediately.
Title schedules are for the season, of 1S97
and are practically a repetition of those
In force in 1898.
At the oflice of the association every
thing Is going quietly on. No change
will be made and all business will be
conducted as usual until at least Us own
case 1*3 acted upon by the Unit d States
supreme court. ,
ALL ARK INCLUDED
Says Chairman 'Morrison of the Inter
Slate Commerce Commission.
Washington, D. C., March 25.—Chair
man Morri'on, of the Inter-state com
merce commission, when asked today
whether the- supreme court decision in
the trajis-O.lisscurl case applied as well
to the Joint Traffic and Southern S ates
Freight associations, replied that it did,
and added: "If carriers may continue
and agree to keep up rates and pric s of
transportation which make part of the
price amd cost of goods, why enact anti
trust laws to prevent combinations to
control produotion and keep up prices?”
NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL.
St. Louis, Mo., March 25.—The S'. Louis
& San Francisco railroad last night gave
notice of withdrawal from all the t:a file
associations, both from freight and pas
senger, in the wc3t and southwest. This
aotion is taken on' account of the supreme
court decision o>n Tuesday declaring the
trans-Missouri Traffic association to be
illegal. So far no action has been taken
by any other of the car service associa
tions.
ANOTHER WITHDRAWS.
Louisville, Ky., March 25.—The Louis
ville & St. Louis Air Line has withdrawn,
from the Southern Freight association at
St. Louis. This aotion has been taken
solely on the ground of economy.
DISCUSSING THE MATTER.
Chicago, 111.. March 25.—A meeting of
the Western trar.s-Contim-nta 1, Ohio Riv
er and Southern Passenger- association
lints is in session here today indulging
in an informal discussion of the com
mission question Owing to the d cislon
of the supreme court In' the trans-ails
sourl Traffic, association it is not be
lieved that any definite concerted action
i will result from the discussion.
T
Wherein Chicago Board of
~ _f5e Figures.
BUCKET SHOPS
Never Stamps Private Property
/«J*n Public Interest for the Benefit
_«o
of Law-Breaking.”
Chicago, III., 'Starch 25.—Judge Horton,
of ihe circuit court, today over-ruled the
motions of th1;- boar of trade, the Western
Union Telegraph company, the Gold and
Stock T legraph company and the Postal
Telegraph company, to dissolve the tem
porary injunctions restraining these i>ar
itits from “dt taching telegraph wires from
the place of business of Harry K. Wiley,
title W. A. 'Michael Commission company,
et al, from removing ‘tickets' and from
cutting off or in any way interfering
with ' the supply of market Information
as has been heretofore supplied.’ ’’
The court said: “There 13 no a Vermont
in the pleadings, no affidavit or evidence
charging, and no statement or argument
upon tlie theory, that either of the com
plainairts is conducting a ‘bucket shop
or using the market reports in any il
legal manner or for any illegal purpose.
“Sinco in the incorporatt n of the board
of trade, in ISo’J. the defendant. Western
Union Telegraph company, has contin
uously been upon the llmr and hall of tit?
exchange of said board except possibly
for a short period. The Gold and Stock
Telegraph company is evened by and is
practically a pan: of the Western Union
Telegraph company. The defendant. the
Postal Telegraph-Cable company has also
b r.‘ fot some years on the floor of said
hall of the txchhng?, collecting and trans
mitting the news as to the market prie“
of produce ' here established. Said tele
graph companies are oomrrvon carriers of
news and us such ors to be controlled by
th- same principles pertaining to the
rights of th ' public as tli-.-r common car
riers are. The business transacted upon
the floor of said hall or exchange is so
vast In its proportions hat it fixes th:
market price of grain, breadstuff^ and
roots for the extensive t rritory that Is
tributary to Chictig r and seriously 0fffoils
and to a considerable extent contr the
values of the necessaries of lit’, through
out the United Stoats and the civilized
world.
“The board of trade is a private cor
poration, it has the same rights as other
private corporations. It has the right
to control and manage its private prop
erty and affairs, the same as any other
private corporation has. If, however,
the board of trade has so used or per
mitted such use of its property, or any
part of it, that the same has become
charged with a public interest, then said
board has no legal right to deprive the
public of the interest thus acquired when
it is sought and used only for legitimate
purposes. That the price of commodi
ties for this market is practically con
trolled by the board of trade will hardly
bp questioned and that the public has an
interest in the prices of such commodi
ties, is certain. In other words the board
of trade has become a sort of public
agent, controlling to a c nsiderable ex
it nt public interests and the interests of
individual members of that public who
may be engaged in business affected by
the market news established by the board
of trade.
"The different telegraph companies
have been so long permitted to continue
to transmit to the public the ‘market
news’ and said telegraph companies have
been so long employed by the public so
to do, that said companies may now be
considered as agents of the public for the
purpose, recognized as such by the board
bound to furnish or to permit to be col
lected or furnished, in any manner, quo
tations or market news to or for the use.
of any bucket shop. No corporation, as
sociation, co-partnership or person keep
ing a bucket shop, and no person whether
acting Individually or as member, officer,
agent, or employe of any corporation, as
sociation or co-partnership in keeping a
bucket shop, is entitled to receive any
such market news. These market quo
tations have become clothed with a pub
lic interest in behalf of such producers,
consumers, shippers, merchants, and
dealers engaged In legitimate business,
and such as use or furnish the same for
use in the legitimate transactions of the
country. The law never stamps private
property with a public interest for the
benefit of law-breaking.”
THE TRANSVAAL
Now Attracts the Attention of Great
Britain and Germany—Voice of
the People Suppressed.
Cape Town, March 25.—The Cape Times
says that the recent suppression of the
Johannesburg Critic and the later sup
pression of the Johannesburg Star by
the Transvaal government, leaves 5,000
persons without an organ to voice their
opinions.
•They, having no votes,” says the pa
per, "that means of expression of opinion
is not open to them. Their public
spokesmen have been banished, forced
Into silence and imprisoned. They have
no courts to appeal to and they have been
disarmed. That is what Is called a re
public of the Nineteenth century.”
A STRONG PROTEST.
London, March 25.—The Globe asserts
that there is good authority for the state
ment that Mr. Joseph Chamberlain, sec
retary of state for the col- nles. under
the incentive of parliamentary pressure,
has sent to President Kruger a protest
couch d in strong terms against alleged
violations of the London convention by
the Transvaal government.
GERMANY ON THE MOVE.
London, March 25.—The Birmingham
Post publishes a dispatch from Berlin
which says that Germany is making pre
parations to send 3.000 troops to South
west Africa in April.
AMONG THE CLOUDS.
Grand Balloon Ascension and Parachute
Jump at East Lake March
80 and 31.
On Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons
of next week there will he grand balloon
ascensions and thrilling parachute Jumps
by Frof. Ltbumo, a noted aeronaut,
whose skill and dexterity has made him
famous.
The Birmingham Railway and Eleetrio
company are making extensive arrange
ment? to handle the Immense crowd*
which will attend these free exhibitions.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SATURDAY, MARCH 27, 1857.
VOLUME 23
NUMBER 58
mm m the proof
And Produces It in Backing Up
His Assertion
AS TO THE CIVIL SERVICE
Another Tangle Besides the Treaty for the
Republicans—The Tariff Discussion
Nearing the End.
Washington, March 26.—At the opening
of the business of the day, Mr. Gallinger,
republican, of N>aw Hampshire, refer
ring to his statement last Wednesday as
to applicants for places in the govern
ment printing office being required to
hop on one foot a distance of twelve feet,
said that that statement had been chal
lenged in some quarters by penny-a-lln
ers In the press and by one gentleman
connected with the civil service com
mission. He held in his hand a printed
form of a circular issued by the civil
service) commission giving points of ex
amination of applicants for trades oc
cupations in the government service and
stating the hopping test as one of the
requirements. It also required the ap
plicant to state whether he had had any
disease during the past five years;
whether any brother or sister had died
within that time, and if so from what
disease and to give his exact weight and
height. In reply to a remark of Mr.
Gray, Mr. Gallinger asserted that Gen.
Sheridan would never have had an op
portunity to become a great military
leader if the civil service commission had
had a chance at him. He could not even
have got a place in the government
printing office. After further remarks
in the same vein, the circular was re
ferred to the committee on civil service
and retrenchment.
Mr. Gray, democrat, of Delaware, of
fered a resolution for the printing as a
document for the use of the senate, the
recent decision of the supreme court in'
the trans-Missouri Freight association
case and of Justice White’s dissenting
opinion.
Mr. Cullom, republican, of Illinois, stat
ed In that connection that he had re
ceived a large number of letters and tele
grams asking for perfect copies of the
decision and that at least a thousand
copies ought to be printed.
Mr. Cockrell, democrat, of Missouri,
suggested that after the decision was
printed as a senate document, additional
copies could be ordered, within a cost
of $500. The resolution was then agreed
to.
Mr. Morgan onerea a resolution wmcn
was agreed to, directing the attorney
general to inform the senate whether any
and what agreement has been entered
into by the president or any of the de
partments relating to the future disposi
tion of the Union Pacific railroad prop
erty, by sale or. otherwise.
• A resolution was offered by Mr. Lodge,
republican, of Massachusetts, and was
agreed to. calling for copies of all pa
pers and correspondence, diplomatic or
otherwise, on file in the state depart
ment relating to the arrest and impris
onment in Cuba of two American sailors,
Richelieu and Bolton.
A large number of bills were Intro
duced. among them one by Mr. Quay,
republican, of Pennsylvania, by reo.uest,
to suppress pauperism, and by Mr. Cul
lom, republican, of Illinois, to promote
aerial transportation.
At 12:50 the senate on motion of Mr.
Davis, republican, of Minnesota, went
into executive session on the arbitra
tion treaty. At 4 o'clock the senate ad
journed until Monday.
IN TH'R HOUSE.
The consideration of the tariff bill un
der the five minute rule for the purp .ee
of amendment which it was expected
would be strictly business, opened with
the liveliest political contest of the ses
sion, lasting for nearly three hours. Pre
liminary to the main battle of the day
there was a tlvely skirmish immediately
after the house went into a committee
of the whole and the clerk instructed to
begin reading the bill. Mr. Laniham,
democrat, of Texas, asked if it would be
in order at this time to move to strike
out the enacting clause which he stated,
if adopted, would operate as a rejection
in the republican ranks for there was not
a quorum of the committee present, and
it was apparent that a larger number of
democrats were in their seats than re
publicans.
Mr. Dinghy, chairman of the ways and
means committee, suggested that the mo
tion be held in abeyance until some pro
gress had been made In the reading of
the bill when there would be a larger at
tendance than at present. To press the
motion mow would only result In delay of
consideration of the bill until a quorum
could be ch ained. .Mr. Lanham suave
ly stated that the motion expressed his
antagonism to the bill and he desired to
press it to a vote now, the chairman hav
ing held it to be in order.
Chairman Sherman—The chair has
made r.o ruling; It has only expressed a
hasty opinion that the motion is in order.
But has the gentleman studied the terms
of the special order under which the
house is proceeding?
Mr. Lanham—I do not understand, Mr.
Chairman, that that order supersedes the
general rules governing deba'e and the
consideration of the bill.
' While the chairman was looking up the
subject on animated colloquy progressed
on the floor.
Finally Chairman Sherman ruled that
under the special order the motion by
the gentleman from Texas was not In or
der.
Promptly on the reading of the prefa
tory paragraph of the bill Mr. Dockery,
democrat, of Missouri, offered an amend
ment authorizing «he secretary of the
treasury to admit free of duty any arti
cle. the production and price of whieh
would bv> controlled by a trust in the
United Stans.
■Mr. Dlngley. chairman of the commit
tee on ways.and means, made the point
that the amendment was not Ir order
at that place, and Mr. Dalzell, repub
lican, of Pennsylvania, .that If It were
In order as to time, congress could not
devolve on the secretary a Judicial duty
such as that of determining whether or
not a trust was In control of certain ar
ticles. This precipitated a debate, based
on democratic charges that republicans
favored the trusts and did not want to
legirdate againstt them. All of the lead
ers on both sides and some not recog
nized in that .•■aivk, took part. Charges
and oounter charges were bandied back
and forth, and the record of the past
seven years was searched to show the
action of both panics on the subject of
trouts, After nearly three hours of skir
mishing, the question Ostensibly being
the point of order. General Henderson,
republican, of Iowa, appealed to both
sides tc put an. end to tt, saying that 1< lit
was the desire to get through the bill In
the time allotted, for Us Consideration,
"a mighty bad start had been made all
around.”
The point against the amendment was
sustained by the chair, and on appeal
his ruling was sustained—158 to 104.
Many other amendments having the
same object, oo put articles controlled by
trusts or the free list, wsre offered, and
on objection by Mr. Dingley. all were
ruled out of order. Mr. Dingley stated
that whr,m the time camc to deal wl h
trusts, the republican majority would do
so, and that after passing this tariff bill,
if anything remained to do for the pub
lic Interest, It would attend to that.
In the course of the afternoon s veral
changes of duty were made, among them
being an increase of half a cent on the
duty on carbonate of ammonia, an in
heres se of from twenty-live to forty c«nts
a pound ,on the duty an- sulphuric ether,
and increasing the duty on the products
of pig lead from 2V4 to 3 cents a pound.
At 5:13 p, m. the house adjourned until
torn arrow nf 10 o'clock, having disposed
of r.lne and half pages of the 163 pages
i of the bill.
"Washington, March 23.—The debat? on
the general treaty of arbitration Is los
ing interest among senators and much
less time than formerly Is devoted to tts
consideration.
This afternoon Mr. Gray, of Delaware,
spoke 1n opposition to the Chilton amend
ment, which for three days has been un
der discussion.
Senator Gray favors the treaty as ne
gotiated by Mr. Olney, but inasmuch as
the oommittee amendments have been
agreed to he does net think that any fur
ther alteration in the text of the eoiv
ventlon is necessary. The committee
amendments. Mr. Gray holds, covers the
same general ground sought to be covered
by Mr. Chilton and the substitution of
his modifying clauses to the effect that
nothing be submitted to arbitration, hut
such matters as the senate may agree to
■arbitrate, is confusing and only tends to
encumber the treaty.
Senator Thurston advocated the adop
tion of the amendments reported to th§
senate during the last session and par
ticularly that made to the first article
relative to the scope of the treaty, which
eliminated ail questions relating to the
foreign domestic policy of either of the
contracting parties.
During the course of the debate it was
suggested that perhaps it would be best
after all to return to the plan suggested
by Lord Salisbury and submit to arbitra
tion oi ly matters involving the question
of pecuniary damages. This suggestion
was declined by Secretary Olney.
During the debate in secret session the
question of the oommittee- vacancies came
up. It was caused by a criticism of Mr.
Allen, populist, of Nebraska, objecting to
the committee on.po.stofflces and post
roads considering postoffic? nominations
until the vacancies wore filled. As the
committee now stands there Is pot a dem
ocratic senator on it, Mr. Butler, of North
Carolina, populist, being the only senator
opposed to the republicans. Mr. Allen
said that this was not a fair representa
tion, for the whole eenate. Republicans
admitted that in some of the committees
they appeared to have the best of it, but
they insisted that they were unwilling to
be charged with the responsibility of leg
islation unless the senate gave them a
majority of strongest republicans in all
committees. This the democrats had
declined to do. The democrats insisted
that they should name democrats for
those whose terms had expired and that
the republicans should keep the bolting
republicans now on the committee as a
part of the republican representation.
In the discussion the republican leaders
i insisted that they must b? given a clear
1 majority or that all the elements op
posed to the straight republicans should
combine and take the committees them
selves. No conclusion was reached
I either upon this matter or the treaty.
—
VERDICT OF GUILTY
Returned by the Jury in the Case of Dr.
Joseph Luis—Recommendation for
Mercy—New Trial Asked For.
Baltimore, March 26.—The jury in the
case of Dr. Joseph Luis, who has been on
trial in the United States court for three
days on a charge of conspiracy with
Gen. Carlos Roloff, to send a filibustering
expedition to Cuba in July, 1S95, cm the
steamship James Woodall, returned a
verdict of guilty at noon today. A mo
tion was made for a new trial.
The Jury labored with the case twenty
four hours. The fir3t voce stood eight
for conviction and four for acquittal.
During the night three of those who had
first voted for acquittal were won over to
the other side. One man remained and
he stuck to his position until almost noon
today'. He was won over by the condi
tion that the prisoner should be recom
mended to the mer.cy of the court.
As soon as the verdict of guilty was
given by the foreman of the jury, with
the recommendation of mercy, a motion
was made for a new trial. Sentence
was suspended until after the hearing of
the motion on Monday next. The pen
alty is a fine not exceeding $3,000 and
imprisonment for not more than three
years.
Judge Morris refused bail and United
States Marshal Evans announced he
would commit Dr. Luis to Jail this af
ternoon.
Dr. Luis’ attorneys have not yet fully
decided upon a line of procedure beyond
the motion for a new trial and it is not
yet fully determined whether the case
will be appealed.
Gen. Roloff. interested with Dr. Luis,
York, forfeited bail and is still missing.
It Is not known whether he Is inhiding in
the United States or fighting in Cuba.
NOW FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
Richmond, Va„ March 26.—The im
provements here contemplated by 'the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad company
are now assured. Manchester city coun
cil passing the viaduct bill tonight. These
improvements will mean the expenditure
hereof nearly $2,000,000 and include a fine
passenger depot and company’s offices
on Main street, near Seventeenth. The
James River division of the road will
be connected with this depot and the
main line by a track built upon an iron
trestle and viaduct running down the
Ubd of the James river. The assent of
the city of Manchester was necessary, in
order to change the grade of a free bridge
which the viaduct must cross.
TO PUT ON MORE MEN.
Richmond, Va., March 26.—Every en
gine .owned by the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad company is now busy, and im
mense quantities of freight are being
handled. It is said on good authority
that in the course of a very few days
the Chesapeake and Ohio will put on a
number of new men over its entire line,
and will lengthen the hours of their work,
thus enabling each one to earn more
money.
' SENTEN'OTID TO HANG.
Norfolk. Va., March 20.—A special to
the Virginian from New Heme, N. C.,
says thnt Charles Holm, who murdered
Ja'mes Washington, on the race (pack
during the February races, was found
guilty 9f murdey In the first degree today
and sentenced to he han&ed 6n May 14.
TO PAY THE MEMBERS.
Berlin, March 2<j.—In the course of the
progress of the estimates toward their
third reading in the reichstag today, an
amendmentp roposed by the radicals pro
viding for the payment of members of
the house, was adopted by a vote of 179
to 19.
A GENERAL CALL ISSUED
^ -
By the National Association of
Democratic Clubs,
CELEBRATE THE BIRTHDAY
Of Thomas Jefferson, the Father of Democ
racy-New Executive Committee—A
Clack List Giv--n Out.
Washington, D. C., March 26.—The Na
tional Association of Democratic clubs,
of which Chauncey F. Black, of Penn
sylvania, is chairman, and Lawrence
Gardner, of Washington, secretary, has
issued a general call to each democratic
society to the United States, which is
respectfully asked to Join the National
Association of Democratic clubs, in 'the
celebration of th; 154th birthday of Thom
as Jefferson on the 13th of April next,
In such manner and 'by such ceremonies
as may to each of them be most agree
able. The executive committee of the
clubs has been re-organized on a silver
basis.
'President Black announces the comple
tion of the executive committee of the
National Association of Democratic clubs
which will serve until the convention of
Democratic clubs in 1900, as follows:
Benton H. McMillan, Tennessee; Geo.
H. Lambert, New Jersey; E. C. Smith,
North Carolina; C. C. Richards, Utah;
John, R. 'McLean, Ohio; E. P. Howell,
Georgia; H. D. Money, Mississippi; Jas.
C. Da'hlman, Nebraska; Stephen M.
White, California; Edward Murphy. Jr.,
New York; Lloyd L. Jackson, Maryland;
John T. Mitchell, Wisconsin; Charles G.
Faulkner, West Virginia; William J.
Stone, Missouri; George Fred Williams,
Massachusetts; J. S. Hogg, Texas, and
J. C. Sibley, Pennsylvania
Mr. Black especially calls attention to
the fact that very little of the old com
tnitoee survives in. the new one, and says:
“Uach of the gentlemen named on this
committee gave loyal support to the can
didates and platform of the party In
the last presidential campaign. There
fore, 1; is to be presumed that they can
be depended upon in the future, thereby
making this committee a great con
trast with Its predecessors, which had
upon it a majority of members who not
only contributed money, but worked to
bring defeat to the party which had hon
ored them.
''Among these were William L. Wilson.
Henry Watterson, Don M. Dickinson and
John C. Black.” •
The president of the league further sta
ted that Mr. Bryan will be the guest of
the league and the principal speaker
at Its banquet to this city on the 13th
proximo, and he convenes the executive
committee to meat here on April 12th for
organization.
LIKE A WATER SPOUT
Was the Deluge Around Valdosta, Ga.—
Great Damage to Railroads,
Savannah, Ga., March 26.—Dispatches
fnom Valdosta to the Morning News say
the rapidity with which the With la coo-*
chee river rose last 'night has caused
the belief that there was a water spout
in the country about there. The river
rose at the rate of two feet at hour. It
ran over the tracks of the Plant system
at Ousley station and carted a large part
of the bridge there away.
Seven wash-outs are reported at Val
dosta and Montgomery.
It is said it will take a week or more
to repair the damage art Ousley.
Tthe heavy rains have caus d big losses
to the railroads.
A dispatch from Quitman, Ga., reports
that the surrounding country is flooded
and Quitman cut off from the outside
world. Several trestles have been washed
away.
A NOTE OF PROTEST
Against the Blockade Sent the Powers—
Beautiful Words for the Grand Old
Man of England.
Athens, March 26—The government
has handed to the representatives here
of the several powers a note protesting
against the blockade of Crete. The note
declares that In view of the bonds uniting
the Greeks and the Christians of Crete,
the blockade, which is depriving the
island of the means of provisioning itself,
is contrary to the sentiments of human
ity inspiring the powers.
The president of the boule, in behalf of
that body, has sent to Mr. Gladstone a
message of gratitude for the stand he
has taken in behalf of Greece and the
Cretan Christians.
The message says in part: “All your
glorious life has been full of combats for
Justice and liberty. Now that the Hel
lenic nation has risen to fight in favor
of Crete which is bedewed with blood,
you come to uphold anew the rights of
an oppressed race.”
THE POWERS IN CONTROL.
London, March 26.—TThe government
announces that the internal forces in
Crete have occupied the town of Malaxa,
which was the scene of fighting between
the Turkish garrison and the Cretan in
surgents yesterday and later taken by
the latter, the garrison having found the
place untenable. The grounds for this
action ns stated are that the admirals
commanding the Joint fleet of the powers
in Cretan waters regarded the occupation
of the town by either Turks or Greeks
as menacing to the Europeans occupying
Canea.
ITALIAN INFANTRY OFF.
Vienna, March 25.—A battalion of Ital
ian infantry left Trieste for Crete today.
Part of the men will be stationed at Suda,
and the remainder at Canea.
ANOTHER AMERICAN
Who Had Been Arrested. In Cuba Re
leased by the Spanish Authorities.
Havana, March 26.—Caesar Esquerlo
Montero, who was born In Key West,
was arrested here two weeks ago as a
political suspect. He was released un
conditionally today and will return to
Key West soon.
The American consulate ignored the
fact of his arrest, 'end his release was
due entirely tp the -initiative of the
Spanish authorities.
WANITS A RIG SUM.
Paris, March 26.—The Figaro says that
the government has decided to ask the
chamber of deputies to vote a credit
amounting to 800,600,000 francs ($160,000,
OOOj for the purpose of constructing forty
live large warships and 710Jorpcdo boats,
the whole to be completed within eight
years.
INEVITABLE LOOKED FOB
Mississippi River Continues To
Rise.
AND LEVEES IN DANGER
Greenville Below the Water's Level by Six
Feet—State Farm Lands Threatened With
Inundation at a Terrible Cost.
Jackson, Miss., March 26.—A special
from Greenville to the Clarion Ledger
says that the river rose seven Inches
higher during the twenty-four hours
ending at noon today and more Is com
ing. The town of Greenville, between
which and the river there is a protection
levee, Is now six feet below the level of
the water, but the natives have confi
dence In their ability to hold the fort.
A letter from Greenwood says: "I have
just returned from Stovall’s landing,
where I walked over five miles of the
levee, and must say I never saw or ex
pected to see anything like it. The levees
seem strong, but the water is within
nine inches of the top and rising.
“A break would mean the destruction
of millions of dollars worth of property
In the great delta where crops of cot
ton and corn have already been pitched
and the latter is growing nicely.”
The state is largely interested in farm
ing operations in the delta, having con
vict farms there, and cultivating about
10.000 acres of land.
Hundreds of acres of state corn are al
ready under water from inland floods,
but a break In the great levees would in-l
undate the whole and cost the state many
thousands of dollars.
Governor McLaurin went to Greenville
this evening In response to telegrams
from his brother, warden of the peniten
tiary. who s. ems to think a break Is in
evitable. Warden McLaurin has hun
dreds of convicts at work strengthening
the weak places.
THE USUAL RESULT.
Nitro-Glycerine Gets In Its Deadly Work
on Three Workmen—Experience of
Witnesses to the Explosion.
Woodbury, N. J., March 26.—Three
workmen were blown to atoms and sev
eral others were injured shortly after
noon today by an explosion at the Repau
no nitro-glycerine works on the Dela
ware river below Lincoln park.
None of the injured are seriously hurt.
The explosion was felt and heard ten
miles from the mills.
The Repauno works are operated by
the Duponts and are used for making
nitro-glycerine* and gun cotton. The
buildings are one-story frame structures
separated some distance from each
other.
The explosion occurred in the separ
ating house where the nitro-glycerine
goes through one of the most dangerous
end delicate processes.
The three men blown were the only
occupants of the buildings and the cause
of the disaster cannot be learned.
Some of the tvorkmcn who were pass
ing through the yards of the works say
the separating house rose bodily into
:he air and then they were thrown to the
ground by the awful blast. After a lapse
of a few minutes a search was begun for
the workmen. Where the separating
house had stood there was a great hole
in the ground and the trees for 200
yards around were denuded of their limbs
and twisted by the force of the explosion.
PARTIALITY SHOWN
Ry the Powers Towards the Turks—
Shameful Desecration of a Church.
London, March 26.—The Canea corre
spondent of the Times telegraphs that
many complaints are heard of the par
tiality shown by the powers for the
ITurks. He adds that Mohammedans
have burned part of the village of Peri
volia.
Animals belonging to Turks are feeding
upon the vines of Christians. The
Church of St. John ha3 Just been dese
crated by a crowd of Moslems. Ail these
things are being done under the eyes of
the ships of the powers who make no
effort to stay them.
The dispatch adds that the fleets at
2 o'clock this afternoon resumed their
shelling of the insurgents in the vicinity
of Canea.
WTLL LEAVE TODAY.
Athens, March 26.—For some, as yet
unexplained reason. Crown Prince Con
stantine, who It was announced last
night would leave Athens at 4 o'clock
this morning to assume command of the
Greek forces in Thessaly has not yet left
the city. It is now reported that he
will go to the Piraeus, whence he will
sail for Vok), in Thessaly, tomorrow ev
ening.
LAWYERS CONFER
On the Subject of the Supreme Court
Ruling—More Withdrawals—Lively
Rate Cutting War Expected
In the Near Future.
Chicago, Ilf., March 26.—A conference
o' the legal representatives of Chicago
railroads was held today in the office of
General R. Peck, general counsel of the
Chicago, Milwaukee and 9t. Paul rail
road. B. F. Ayer, general counsel for
the Illinois Central company, presided,
and there was a full attendance of law
yers from the Important lin.s west, south
and north of Chicago. The conference
was called on account of the supreme
court decision. The prevailing sentiment
of; those present showed that the western
railroad lawyers ore practically a unit
in the opinion that the eastern railroad
lawyers and Joint Traffic association
magnates are wrong, from a legal stand
point, in assuming that the decision
does not place the stamp of illegality on
any other association except the trans
Missouri. The lawyers declared that the
decision outlawed such associations as
the Western Freight association and the
result of the conference will be that such
roads as have not already formally with
drawn from that organization will forth
with send notice to that effect. Thu re
lation of the decision to passenger as
sociations was not discussed sufficiently
for general opinion to be given out and
each pied for the present will be guided
by its own lawyers.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
and the,Sioux City and Northern, the lat
ter road running between Allmteapolis
and O’Neill, Nebraska, sent notices of
withdrawal today from ail traffic asso
clationa. The Western Freight essocla
<tioa has evased to exist, many of Uie enn
ployes already having been discharged
for lack of work to do anjl those of a
higher grad are seeking positions else
where. Most of the officials have eon
crapta which run to 189S, Including Com
missioner Midgeley, who is now in the
Holy Land on a sick leave.
The disagreement of the trans-conti
nental toads as to the payment of com
missions Is reported to have already
led lo independent action by the Union
Pacific, which may be '.he beginning of
a serious rate trouble in the absence of
the trans-Continental association agree
ment. except on paper. The Union Pa
cific is said to have raised commissions
over its lines from the Missouri river to
Denver $2 and to California points $32.
The Chicago and St Paul passenger
situation is also report“d to be in a con
dition bordering on collaps- on rates.
The supreme court’s decision has had
the eff ect of abrogating Jhe agreement of
the cr-ms-Continental Passenger associa
tion to pool the business of the Christian
Endeavor convention to be held in Sar*
Francisco next July, and there is danger
now of a free for all bid fcr the busi
ness of each lino, which might bring
totes from Chicago and return down to
$20.
MEETING OF ATTORNEYS
Of the Joint Traffic Association Called
for Tuesday—That Appeal.
New York, March 26.—A meeting of
the attorneys of the various lines which
are members of the Joint Traffic ass'dia
tion has been called for Tuesday at 11
o'clock at the office of Carter & Led
yard, coflnsel for the association.
District Attorney MoFarlane said to
day that the appeal directed by Attorney
General McKenna from the decision of
the New York circuit court of appeals
in the Joint Traffic association case would
be made at once. He thought the rec
ord would go up on Monday.
AFTER FOUR DAYS.
Fort Monroe. Va„ March 26.—The
Southeastern Traffic association brought
their four days’ session to a close this af
ternoon and most of the members have
left for tlieir homes. Much business of
importance was transacted and many
points of difference between competing
linos adjusted. The organization will bo
continued until further circumstances
render its dissolution imperative.
WITH THREE BOARDS.
Wilmington, N. C., March 26.—Two
boards of aldermen organized her’ today,
which with the old board, holding over,
as they claim they have a righ'i to do
until the constitutionality of the election
held yesterday is decided by the courts,
makes three boards struggling for the
control >of the city government. Two of
the boards elected mayors.
LABOR LEADERS EXCITED.
Topeka, Kan., March 26..—Labor lead
ers in Kansas are greatly excited over
a ruling by Attorney General Rohle that
the anti-trust law Just passed by the
legislature is applicable to labor organ
izations. An effort will be made to test
the law at once.
SPREADING ITS INFLUENCE.
The Regents of the White Shield Held
an Enthusiastic Meeting Lffst
Night.
Washington Conclave, Regents of the
White Shield, held an enthusiastic meet
ing last nigh: In the rendezvous in Mag
nolia hall. Quite an amount of import
ant business was transacted.
■Six recruit3 were received into mem
bership, among them being several very
prominent county officials. Many appli
cations were received and accepted.
Regent Commander Webb and Mr. Ma
lone, of Jefferson Conclave, of Bessemer,
were ‘the visitors prtsent. They reported
that there were twenty recruits to be
mustered in at that place tonight.
CASE OF REVENGE
Chafnberlaln Seeks War With Kruger as
a Resentment of Superior
Statecraft.
London, March 26.—'The Daily News
and the Dally Chronicle will tomorrow
comment at some length on the increasing
hostility of*Coionial Secretary Chamber
lain to the Transvaal, as shown by his
questions before the South African com
mittee. Both papers suggest that he is
deliberately seeking war with the Trans
vaal.
In the mind of the unprejudiced public
■there la no doubt that Mr. Chamberlain’s
amour propre has been severely hurt in
hi3 diplomatic struggles with President
Kruger, in which the wily old Boer has
show™ that he is easily Mr. Chamber
lain’s master in statecraft, and it now
appears that smarting under his defeats
the oolonial secretary is seeking tho sol
ace of revenge against the Boers.
A GOIjD democrat
May Be Allowed to Hold His Fort as a
Political Gift.
■Washington, D. C., March 26.—The visit
paid to President McKinley this morning
by Commissioner Forman of the Internal
revenue bureau has been considered sig
nificant in view of the statements that he
would be allowed to hold his office undis •
turbed us a recognition of the services
of the gold democrats in the last cam
paign.
Mr. Forman ir„n for governor of 'Illi
nois on the Palmer and Buckner ticket
and shortly after the election w'as ap
pointed to the internal revenue commls
sionershlp by President Cleveland. He
said today after his call on Mr. McKinley
that he had nio information that he
would not be disturbed.
A GLOOMY OUTLOOK.
Madrid, March 26.—The Manilla corre
spondent of the Imparclal cables that
the Spaniards there take a gloomy view
of the outlook. It Is thought that even
If the religion should be temporarily
suppressed It would recur In an aggra
vated form.
ALL T.HE POWERS I.V LINE.
London. March 26.—The Telegraph will
tomorrow publish a dispatch from Vienna
stating that all the powers have now
accepted the project to blockade the en
tire Greek coast, beginning with the ports
of Piraeus, Volo, Corinth and Arta.
HOTEL ARRIVALS.
•Following are arrivals at the Florence
yesterday: C. A. Tyrrell and wife, Chi
cago, 111.; L. G. Schuessler, Columbus, j
Ga.; J. V. Pk-roni. New Orleans, La.'; A. j
Michaells, New oYrk; .1 T. Jones, Altoo- ;
na: W. I.. Howard, city; C. L. Haley,
city; J. J. Gledhtll, Chicago; Dr. O. V.
Crowe, city; J. IM. Lumley, St. Louis;
A C. Jackson. South Carolina; Miss
Thurza Chandler. Florence; R. S. Lewis,
Sterrett; J. M. Leomard, city; C. J. Lun
berg, Rockford, 111.; G. S. Townsend, New
York; W. J. Morris, Clanton; M. T. Hodge
Mawlcln&vtll'C, Ga.; J. A. llcrlng, New
York: Victor C. Barringer, San Aivtonlo,
Texas; Willis Banks, Columbus, Miss.
WEEKLY REVIEW OF TRADE
As Compiled Carefully by Dun
andjgradstreet,
A WEE £ OF SURPRISES
/ —
With Pricff -? ,w Enough to Insure Against
Fi/ & Decline—Lare Dealings
. in Wool—Failures,
New York, March 26.—R. G. Dun .& Co.,
will say tomorrow in their weekly review
of trade: Rarely have markets sustained
such surprises as they have received of
late with so little loss. Foreign condi-^
tions and London alarms, the collapse of
the Iron or? combination, the'destructlve
floods in the Mississippi valley and the
decision of the supreme court against
railway associations have been used to
the utmost, but not even in railroad
stocks has the result been important.
With confidence that better times and.
larger business are coming, men are less
disposed every day to throw away good
investments and the very fact that prices
of products are low is regarded as a
guarantee against any further decline.
In all Industries also the number of mills
and shops and hands at work gradually
increase.
Cotton was helped upward cne-elghth
by the flood, but has lost half the gain,
although manufacturing Is more hopeful.
Without change In prices, goods were
better demand, and sales of 5.000 pieces of
print cloths result in a stronger tone.
The final dissolution of the lake iron
ore pool has been expected ever since
the Carnegte-Rockeftller deal, and in
sures low prices for ore the coming year,
though, perhaps, not lower than In 1893.
Mesaba facilities for production have
vastly increased ar.d all the great steel
making concerns have secured mines of
their own, while means of transportation
have greatly enlarged.
With assurances of cheap ore, hesita
tion about various products should di
minish, and the demand is steadily In
creasing. Itars are still demoralized and
at the lowest point, for plates, sheets,
wire rods and rods, and all nails, the de-t
mand is growing larger.
The demand for rails continues enough
to strengthen prices, although som« from
speculative purchases are offered below
the present prices of mills. Increase In
coke production appears, and more is as
sured by the purchase of works by the
Cambria company, and while quotations
are unchanged outsiders are offering fur- .
naeo at $1.70 per ton.
Speculation in wool has recorded larger
sales for four weeks than i ver before, 46,
605,300 pounds against 21,984,576 In the
same weeks of 1S92.
Much more than half is for speculation,
as nothing like the full capacity of mills
is employed. Americans have also
bought largely at London, 40,000 bales al
ready, it Is said, where the market is
excited and had advanced 10 to 15 per
cent. With heavy supplies here, these
large imports, and new wool coming In
May, ther*e may be found overloaded
dealers. Prices Imre are still advanc
ing. and many kinds have risen 2 to 3
cents during the past month. The wool
manufacture Is steadily increasing.
Failures for the week have been 291 in
the United States against 259 last year,
and 50 in Canada against 39 last year.
BRADSTREET’S REVIEW.
New York. March 26.—Bradstreet’s to
morrow will say: While the week Is
not without? favorable features, unfa
vorable Influences have been more nu
merous. Beading money markets show
no Improvement. Mercantile collections
continue slow anti the volume of funds
offered Is in excess of demands for dis
counts. The tendency of Investments
to improve has t mporarily disappeared
under the influence of the supreme court
"anti-trust decision,” which apparently
threatens arrangements for th" mainten
ance of railway rates, as well as railway
trades-union activity, so far as it may
affect Interstate commerce.
The tendency of prices is downward,
quotations being: low r for wheat, In
dian corn, oats, coffee, cotton and for
pig iron and steed billets on the outlook
for lower priced ore. Stormy weather,
high water and floods, in th- Ohio, Mis
sissippi and Missouri "river valleys and
In the country drained by tributary
streams having Interfered with interior
trade.
The gradual increase In the number
of industrial strikes is the outcome of a
movement to secure higher wages, and
in instances moderate ad vane, s have
been obtained. Staples for which prices
are higher Include wool, raw sugar, wheat
flour, petroleum linseed oil and turpen
tine. Prices are unchanged for print
cloths, refined sugar, lard and pork. Re
cent activity In raw wool continues, and
the prospect for an Increased tariff on
Imported woolens caused merchants
to purchase American goods mere freely.
The movement of cottons 19 not up to ex
pectations and in some lines is disap
pointing. The most noticeable improve
ment In trade is confined to dry goods,
hardware, leather, agricultural Imple
ments and shoes.
Bank clearings at seventy-seven cities
throughout the United Slates are disap
pointing. the total for the week being
only ?SSS,000,000—6.6 per cent, less than
last week and 1.2 per cent, less than In
the like week one year ago.
The rate of commercial mortality con
tinues the decline shown in recent weeks,
the total number of business failures
throughout the United States being 221
this week as compared with 231 last week
and 276 in the like w.-ek of 1896.
MARCH APRIL, MAT.
The Most Favorable Season for Curing
Chronic Catarrh.
Winter weaithoi causes catarrh. Every
body knows this. Put everybody does not
stop to think Chat winter weather delays
the cure of catarrh. It takes longer to
cure a case of catarrh In the winter gener
ally than In the warm reason. Spring is
here. Now Is tho time favorable to the
treatment of old and especially stubborn
cases of catarrh. Read what old cases Pe
ru -na can cure under favorable circum
stances.
““J. W.Orpe, Quanah, Texas, writes: “I
was afflicted with catarrh for twenty
years; for twelve years had been partial
ly deaf. I did not think I could be cured.
I began taking Pe-ru-na, and now believe
myself to be permanently cured."
Just think of It! Now' is the best time to
be cured quick. So-called spring fever is
really systemic catarrh. Pe-ru-na eradi
cates the disease completely.
Send for free catarrh book. Address The
Pe-ru-na Drug Manufacturing Co.T Colum
bus, Ohio.
MONTREAL SHAKEN.
Montreal, March 27.—Another shock of
earthquake was felt here at four minute*
after 12 o’clock Ibis mor ning, shaking up
many big buildings and being distinctly!
felt all over the city.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., SUNDAY, MARCH 28, 1897.-TWELVE PAGES.
NUMBER 59
"LONG LIFETOK1NG GEORGE"
Graphic Description of Affairs in
Crete.
NO AUTONOMY WANTED
And Only Greece Will Satisfy the Christians—
Cold Facts Give i Out by an Eng
lish Correspondent.
(Copyright 1S97 by the Sun Printing and
Publishing Association.)
London, March 27.—The powers began
shelling the Christians this afternoon at
2 o’clock. That is the latest news about
the Cretan situation, as given to Chris
tian England today in the laconic lan
guage of the Carn-a correspondent of the
Times.
Christian England, it should be added,
is mow so accustomed to the news of
the shedding of Christian blood by one
agency or another that it ate its break
fas: with its usual appetite. I cannot
imagine, however, that the most callous
and cynical of this so-called Christian
nation oould read today's dispatch from
the correspondent of the Telegraph who
has just returned from the interior of
Crete without a serious disturbance of
his equanimity. It was high time that
the reply of Crate to the policy which
Europe Is enforcing by shells and star
vation should be made known to the
world. The answer comes today in lan
guage, simple, graphic and convincing,
that 1: should rouse even the effete man
hood of European civilization to cry
against the infamy of the present policy.
The correspondent, disguised as a Cretan
pritst, joined the insurgents at Akrotir
and was one of the bands of Cre ana who
were requested by the Italian admiral to
visit the interior with the object of sub
mitting to the people the proclamation of
the admirals in regard to the future of
the island. At Avamos, an insurgent doc
tor named Venzelos, mounted a ladder
and read in a loud voice the proclama
tion explaining .’he meaning of autono
my and demanding the views of the peo
ple. Shouts of indignation resulted and
scores of men began to speak together.
The mayor of Avamos said: “We are
now united with Greece. We enjoy the
protection of law and order In the interior
of Crete and would enjoy It throughout
the island If Europe would let us alone.
We refuse autonomy and will never co
operate in establishing it. We will op
pose it so long as our powder and ball
last. Thac is our view, and that of all
Cretans.”
Ex-Deputy Pasppadkis said: “Europe
has not understood the Cretan question
and is therefore on th; wrong track. We
know what we want and why we
want ir. Our reasons are not merely sen
timental, but economical. We are decid 'd
to maintain the union with Greece at all
costs.”
The writer continues: “When the pop
ular cession had somewhat subsided. I
witnessed a scene which I shal not for
get. An old man, 75 years of age, for
merly of the Cretan bank, said: ‘We all
want union with Greece. On this point
there are no dissents. Europe may an
nihilatartUS but can't chang. our convic
tions. So long as one Cretan lives we
will exclaim as we do now, union or
death.’
"My son George was killed at Attriti
a fortnight ago. I loved him dearly,
but gave him up willingly, and am ready
to sacrifice my family and myself, as a
protest against autonomy. We have
lost our property and care naught for
our lives.
“The crowd shouted: ’We care naught
for our lives.’ Suddenly a strong arm
was tugging at me. and turning.*1 saw
a handsome man, armed, but dressed In
clerical garb. His eyes were rolling
with passion. He shouted: ’You, sir.
shall see what value we Cretans set upon
our lives. You may go back and tell
Europe that you saw me do this,’ and he
seized a long white handled dagger from
\one of the by-stander’s belts and one
second later would have cut his own
throat from ear to ear had not I and
others held back his arm in the nick of
time. With extreme dlfllculty the dag
ger was wrestled from his grasp. He was
ultimately arrested.
“After this a written reply was sub
mitted to the people, which was vocifer
ously applauded and crowding around
me exclaimed: ‘Our answer to Europe
is union with Greece or death, long life
to King George.’
"The scenes In other villages and prov
inces so closely resembled this that their
detailed description would be superflu
ous. Everywhere enthusiasm, unanim
ity and determination were displayed and
as the Cretans are Intelligent, obstin
ate, fearless and fanatical It is difficult to
understand by what process known to
admirals, generals or diplomatists, au
tonomy can be imposed upon them
against their own will.
“Great Indignation was expressed by
Christians at the marked favor mani
fested by European admirals towards the
Moslems who are allowed to send rein
forcements not merely of regulars, but
of Irregulars, Including Mohammedans
. recently rescued by Col. Vassas at Can
danos, despite the express written prom
ise of the British consul that effective
measures would be taken to hinder them
from fighting against the Cretans in the
Island. Having seen with my own eyes
this promise in the British consul’s hand
writing I assured the people that the res
cued Moslems were not allowed to en
gage In the combat. They replied:
‘Come up tomorrow by daylight and you
will see those same Moslems reaching
from Canea.’ They spoke the truth. I
have since seen them and must say that
nothing could damage more materially
the authority of the adn(frals and the
good faith of Europe In tlf? eyes of the
Cretans than the line of conduct which
makes the European fleets appear in
the role of Turkey’s allies. The Chris
tians adso bitterly complained, and with
truth, that a Turkish warship in Suda
bay was allowed to bombard ICaliyes,
although It Is under European protection.
This bombardment occurred twice In my
presence, as did also the shelling of the
village of Kontopoulo, when I was stay
ing there. Moreover, every two-oared
boat crossing Suda bay has been fired
at by the Turkish battleship before the
eyes of the admirals.
J ne luraisn rorunea DarracKs called
block houses around Canea constitute a
source of chronic danger. The Roldlers,
fresh from Anmnla, shoot at passing
Christians in sport and do not even re
spect a white flag. I. myself, have been
frequently fired upon and once nearly
hit, and have been for the pas< three
days absolutely cut off from Cr.nea by
the Turkish block houses. In the moun
tains, at a place called Stllefarango we
heard voices across a deep, impassable
ravine, issuing apparently from the bow
els of the earth. AVe stopped and through
field glasses saw emaciated women and
children Issuing from a cave high up in
the mountain on the opposite side of the
cleft. They were the wives, widows and
children of the Chris.iana taking refuge
from the Turks of Malaxa and living on
roots. We could not help them. When
we reached Colonel Vasaaa’ headquarters
at Aliklano, I saw scores of famishing
people, once rich, who came begging
food. Some of them spoke English. All
were barefooted and ( mandated, several
not having raten for three or four days.
There an hundreds in the same condition,
yet the food supply is stopped by order
of Burop^. The distress is heart-rending
and disease ha? now supervened.”
This testimony and more to the same
effect is from correspondents to journals
which steadfastly uphold Isord Salisbury
is his Cretan policy. The problem Is
how long the unanimous testimony of
the facts in. the case will fail to Influence
the attitude of the government and its
supporters. There Is ample evidence
that the political features of the situu
| tkm are rapidly approaching an issue
| of the greatest importance to Europe
ar.d the world. Lord Salisbury's visit
to Paris yesterday to consult M. Hano
taux, French foreign minister, is an event
of the utmost significance. When before
has a prime minister of Great Britain
esteemed • he emergency in affairs of Eu
rope no great that he has gone to Paris
to hold a consultation with the foreign
minister of France? An attempt is nat
urally made to disguise the importamee
of the visit under the fiction of a health
trip, but that is only a transparent sub
terfuge. Nothing has transpired, noth
ing will transpire, probably, at th? pres
ent day regarding what took place at
■those momentous interviews In Paris. It
may be assured that greater things than
a solution of the Cretan cilsis were dis
cussed. It is not venturing beyound th?
bounds of probability to say that the
whole question of Anglo-French relations
were gone into, and that, too, in a spirit
of warmest friendliness and conciliation
on the part of Lord Salisbury. The whole
tope of political events continues to be In
favor of closer relations between Eng
land and France. England Is undoub
tedly the initiator.
It Is suggested in more than one quar
ter that Lord Salisbury, under the pres
sure t-f the extraordinary political situa
tion In Europe at the present moment,
might be willing to abandon the tradi
tional English policy of "no entangling
alliances,” and enter into an arrange
ment with France which would be an al
liance in everything but name. Even the
Egyptian difficulty, some beieve, might
be adjusted on that basis to the satis
faction of the French pe p?. II. llano
taux, who is ia remarkably clever man,
might not find 1t impossible to transfer
the affections of his countrymen from
Rtissia to England if he made a judi
cious upe of i'.'Vn Egyptian cohoes ion
and the mutual hate of Germany, with
whom the French people seriously sus
pect their Russian ally is flirting.
Regarding the prospect of events in
Greece ana Turkey, it is still impossible
to speak with any confidence. One sot
of correspondents assert more emphat
ically than ever now that war Is certain.
Others think the continued delay may
avert a conflict altogether. It really de
pends on the secret intentions of certain
of the powers with regard to Greece and
Turkey. Information on this point is
hopelessly conflicting and I do not un
dertake to venture even an opinion.
VERY SLOWLY
Was the House on the Tariff Bill Now
Under Consideration.
Washington, D, C., March 27.—The
house in committee of the whole pro
gressed even more slowly in i.s consider
ation of the tariff bill today than yes
terday. Having disposed of blit five and
a half pages against nine ar.d a half the
(lay before. This was the rate exactly
one page an hour, and if the same rate
should be maintained until ■ he expiration
of the period allotted for discussion by
the order adopted last week there will
have been 31 of the 1G3 pages of the bill
considered when the hour for the vote
on its passage arrives. The dilatory
method of handling the bill provoked Mr.
Johnson, republican, of Indiana, to pro
test against the irrelevant discus-ion
which impeded progress ar.d in which
members of the committee on ways and
means in charge of the bill indulged as
well as democrats and to ask Chairman
DIngley if a change could not be made
which would result in more rapid work.
When the house entered upon 1 s work
this morning there was not a quorum
present, as revealed by a vote, and there
was a wait of fifteen minutes until 101
members appeared. The discussion took
a wide range, covering the propositions
that the foreigner pays the tax under
a protective tariff; that a duty on hides
'would be more beneficial to the farmer
than all the duties in the agricultural
schedule; that pig iron can be produced
in Alabama and Tennessee In competition
with the north and foreign countries
with a smaller duty than $1 a ton (al
though no motion was made to reduce It);
th^t trusts are in the main beneficial to
the consumer.
As a result of the day’s work a few im
material changes were made in the chem
ical and earths and earthenware sched
ules, proposed by the committee on ways
andi means, and at 4:15 o'clock the house
adourned until ntxt Monday at 10 a. m.
THE TURF
NEW ORLEANS RESULTS.
New Orleans, La., March 27.—Ten
thousand people saw the $2,500 Crescent
City Derby decided here today on a fast
track. Meadow Thorpe, the Memphis
colt second choice at 5 to 2, won with ease
doing the nine furlongs in 1:55%. Only
one favorite won and the public lost to
the books.
First Race—Six furlongs: Rewarder, 100
(A. Barrett) 6 to 5, won.; Stanza, second;
Sky Blue, third. Time 1:15%.
Second Race—'Halt mile, 2 year olds:
Harold F, 104, (Caywood) 7 to 1, won;
Our Lizzie, second; Georgie C., third.
Time 49%.
Third Race—One mile: Amber Glints,
103, (Dean) 3 to 1, worn; Volma, second;
Carroll Dander, third. Time 1:44%.
Fourth Race—Crescent City Derby,
$2,500, mile and a furlong: Meadow
Thorpe, 115, (T. Murphy) 5 to 2, won;
Donna Rita, second; Cadillac, third. Time
1:56%.
Fifth Race—One mile: Albert S., 99,
(Dorsey) 20 to 1, won; Bridgeton, second;
Patrol, third. Time 1:42.
Six h Race—Mile: Cousin Jeems, 109,
(Lend’man) 7 to 2, won; Mauritus, second;
Mike Kelly, third. Time 1:43%.
Seventh Race—Six furlongs: Sharon,
110, (Scherrer) 6 to 2, won.-, Lonely, sec
ond; Nannie Lord, third. Time 1:15%.
GENUINE HYDROPHOBIA.
Scranton, Pa., March 27.—Bennie Bev
an, aged 9 years, of this city, who was
bitten in the thumb by a mad dog on
March 9, died tonight at his home after
forty-eight hours excrutlatlng pain.
Nine physicians were summoned in con
sultation and pronounced it a genuine
case of hydrophobia. The bite was not
considered dangerous at the time, and
after it had been cauterized the lad was
able to continue his studies in a public
school. r >
Eleven other boys were bitten by the
same dog on the same day, and the
greatest excitement prevails lest they
should meet the sam£ horrible fate.
CROWN PRINCE OF GREECE
Leaves Mid Great Enthusiasm
for the Frontier,
CROWDS SHOUT FOR WAR
As the Thessaly Sets Sail--Christians Gain Im
portant Strategic Positions—Greeks
Leave New York for Heme,
I-ior.don, March,27.—The Sun will to
morrow publish a dispatch from Athens
saying that Crown Prlnoe Constantine
finally started for the frontier on the
Thessaly this evening. There was a
pathetic parting between himself and
the members of his family, all seeming
to fully realize the import of the under
taking. The fact that he was to leave
to assume command of the Greek forces
which are now confronting Turks on the
frontier became known to the public
some time previous to his departure.
The streets in the vicinity of the palace
were jammed with people, who frantic
ally acclaimed the crown print1’ when
he appeared. The wildest enthusiasm
was everywhere displayed and the
crowds shouted for war until they were
hoarse.
CHRISTIANS PUSHING
Toward Canea and Capturing Import
ant Strategic Positions.
' Canea, March. 27.—Notwithstanding the
support furnished the Turks by the for
eign fleets ihe Christian insurgents have
captured all the strategic positions
around this city, except the town of Out
sonnaiia, which commands the spring
which supplies Canea with water. Spe
cial efforts will be made to prevent the
capture of Outsonnaria, for if it should
fall into the hands of the insurgents they
would by being able to cut off water
supply, be practically masters of Canea.
Cannonading was heard throughout the
day in the direction of Aliklanu, where
is situated the camp of Col. Vassos, com
mander of the Greek army of occupation.
Tile firing added to the fears of the Mos
lems here, who thought that the Insur
gents and Greek troops had combined
and would make an attack upon Canea.
The Moslem refugees have little faith
in the ability of the powers to save them
should such an attack be made, but there
is really scarcely any danger that the
Greek troops will advance nearer the
town than they are now. No explana
tion of the firing has been given.
GOING HOME TO FIGHT.
N'ew York, March 27.—The French line
steamer La Champagne sailed this morn
ing with 150 Greeks aboard. They are
on their way to their native land, pre
pared to shed their blood in the Impend
ing fight against the Turks.
UNCLE SAM AFTER THEM.
Jacksonville, Fla., !Ma.reh 27.—<H. A.
Obryne and James A. Anderson were
today appointed by Judge I. eke of the
United Sta tes Court to be receivers of the
assets of the Mutual Building and Lorn
•association for the soutnern district of
Florida. They are the same receivers
appoint'd by Judge Lumpkin of the supe
rior court of Fulton county, Georgia.
They were reeprired to give bond in the
sum of $10,000 for the faithful perform
ance of their duties as receivers.
THE KAISER’S POLICY
In Regard do the Attitude of Greece to
Crete Roundly Commented Upon
By lire German Priss.
Berlin, March 27.—The current of Ger
man oplnl-tn has set In strongly against
what was known as the “Kaiser's policy”
regarding Greece, not in the columns of
the liberal press alone but in those of
newspapers which have hitherto been
giving chelr support to the policy of in
tervention in Crete on the port of the
powers. These journals have taken a new
tack and are now deplolting the part
which the united squadrons or the powers
are playing and are likely to play In
Cretan and Greek waters. An example of
this newspaper opinion is shown in an
(article in the National Zeitung comment
ing upon the official announcement of
the share taken in the naval concert
by Germany's cruiser Augusta Victoria
in bombarding the Cretan Insurgents
which characterizes the affair as an un
heard of disgrace, adding that (nothing
more is needed to prove that the inter
vention of the powers Is futile.
The Vossische Zeltung, in an article
on the same Bubjeot, says: "This sense
less and brutal act of intervention on th
part of Germany in Greece may as well
be the last that Germany takes part in.
Nobody could witness the departure of
more Germain ships than German droops
for Cretan waters without grave misgiv
ings and anxiety. The German navy can
leave euch a task without Jealousy of
other nations.”
The paper concludes Its article by say
ing: "The first step to be taken is the
immediate withdrawal of the Turkish
Troops from Crete. That public senti
ment will influence the kaiser is evidently
within the bounds of probability, but
When the government speaks in the relch
etag to try to influence that body, as they
did in today's debate on the naval credits
by adducing the paucity of the German
share in the naval demonstrations of the
powers in the east as compared with the
fleets of the other nations., tehir argu
ments fall flat as they did todaay, In the.
face of the fact that Germany prefers
not to co-operate with the other powers
In any measures ofl coercion with
Greece.”
The rejection of the government’s de
mand for increased naval credits by
the relchstag was a foregone conclusion,
but there is no public excitement over
the matter. In connection with the re
jection of the credits, the old stories are
being revived that Prince Hohenlohe,
the imperial chancellor, is desirous of
being relieved of the oares of office, plead
ing .advanced age, and (the infirmities
thereof, and It is also said that if Prince
Hohenlohe retires, Baron Marshall Von
Bieberstein, minister of foreign affairs,
will resign also. The emperor, In expec
tation that the relchstag will reject the
naval. credit proposals. Is concluding an
arangement with the Krupps for the con
struction of two cruisers after plans fun
nished by the government, under an
agreement that if the relchstag Shall re
fuse to grant the credits necessary to pay
for them when the estimates.lor 1898 are
submitted, the Krupps will be allowed to
sen the ships -to any for[4gn power wish
ing to purchaeer them. In meantime
the K.-upps are'to have * Jiaafs credit
at the lmperiaj, treasury.
The Father of Waters Continues
His Destruction.
GREENVILLE IS IN DANGER
Situation There Decidedly Alarming—Water
Pouring Into Missouri Through a Crevasse
—Still Rising at New Orleans.
Memphis, Term., March 27.—With no
alarming volume of water sweeping on
from the upper rivers and the riveis here
and at various other important points on
the decline, the acute stage of the flood
here is probably pa t. There is great
uneasinjc-ss, however, and not without
some cause, at Greenville, Miss., and
Helena, Ark. At the former place today
there was intense alarm, In consequence
of which a call for volunteers went out
from jGovernor McLaurin, who has gone
to that place, and the mayor also issu
ing a proclamation calling attention to
the grave peril of the city and urging
business men to close their places and
report with all their able-bodied male
help for service on the shaky levees.
Both calls brought results, and a large
sized army is combating the water’s en
croachments.
The opinion- tonight is that these ef
forts will prevail. The only weak place
In the Missis.-ippi levee, so far as Green
ville Is advised, is at Australia, and there
is confidence of holding it up. At sev
eral points, however, the water is flush
with levees tops and in someplaces flow
ing over.
On the Arkansas side a small break
is reported at Boggy bayou. It was
doubtless very small, for no alarm ap
pears to be felt. At Westover, below
Helena, there have l>ern serious slough
ing, Which may result in collapse. So
much of the Modoc levee as remains in
t'3'ct is being guarded by determined men
who say it shall not be cut by levee
board officials or any one else-.
There was a heavy sloughing of the
levee below Gunnison, Miss., today, ex
tending to its center, but heroic efforts
have thus far contrived to save the bai
ter, o.
The Birds Point, Mo., situation is se
rious. Some thirty or more houses have
been washed from their foundations,
and in those that remain there is frofn
an inch to five feet of water.
SITUATION AT GREENVILLE.
Is Decidedly Alarming, and a Break
Over Is Expected Momentarily.
Jackson, Miss., March 27.—A special
fronn Greenville to the Evening Clarion
Ledger says: Today Is one of feverish
anxiety, and it may be said the crisis
is now on. The mayor has Issued a proc
lamation warning all merchants to close
their places of business today and catl
ing'every able-bodied man to the levee.
At inis hour the city Is almost deserted
of merchants, and a strong and brave
fight Is being made along the line to
h"ld the great embankment. Special
trains are being sent out on both roads
and branches to bring in recruits-. Gov
ernor McLaurin and oclals of railroads
are lending every assistance. The con
dition is critical, but hopeful.
F. C. Nelson, of this city, who is large
ly Interested in delta farming operations
and is agent for many thousand acres of
land in the great valley, returned from
Greenville last night. He says the wa
ter was over the levees proper yesterday
evening, but was being held in check by
sacks of sand and dirt piled on top. and
the heroic pfople were still hopeful of
their ability to hold the fort. The town
of Greenville, was then several feet be
low the water level, and one standing
on the streets of the town could seie the
hull of steamboats above, them. The
sight of so much water was simply ap
palling.
AT CAIRO, ILL.
The Water Is Reported Falling Slowly
and the Danger Virtually Over.
Cairo, 111., March 27.—The river Is fall
ing slowly at this point. There Is a
strong breeze, which causes high waves
to break against the levees and occasion
some alarm, but It Is believed the em
bankments are strong enough to with
stand the swells.
Reports received from up the Ohio state
that the river is falling at the rate of an;
inch per hour and the danger is believed
to be over so far as the floods In the Ohio
river are concerned.
AT NEW ORLEANS.
The Water Has Risen Above the Danger
Line—Goods Being Moved.
New Orleans, March 27.—The water has
steadily risen here until the danger line
was passed this morning and the water
now reaches the sixteen and one-half
foot mark at Canal street.
All the merchandise has been removed
and no danger Is apprehended unless the
water goes considerably higher.
AT CARLTTHERSVILLE, MO.
Great Volume of Water Is Pouring In
land Through a Big Crevasse.
Caruthersville, Mo., March 27.—The
river Is stationary here. The crevasse
Immediately south of here Is now three
eighths of a mile wide and pouring as
great a volume of water Into the country
as the Mississippi carries at the orllnary
stage. Should the water go four Inches
higher It will overflow the levee.
RISING AT HELENA.
Helena. Ark., March 27.—The river here
Is fifty feet high and slowly rising. Ac
cording to government reports the high
est water Is yet to come. This means
great destruction of property.
IT WAS A SUCCESS.
The Laurada Places a Most Important
Filibustering Crew on a Ship.
Philadelphia, Pa., March 27.—The fili
bustering steamer Laurada arrived at the
Delaware breakwater this evening, after
having, It Is said, landed the most im
portant expedition sent from this country
to Cuba. It was shortly after dark when
she slipped past the United States rev
enue cutter Hamilton and Immediately
disappeared In the darkness up the bay.
The Hamilton had been watching at the
breakwater for the steamer for some
time, and shortly after the Laurada had
passed In, she got under way, but It
was Impossible to tell In the darkness
which course she took.
Although making no signals, fhe Lau
rada came near enough to the board Ituj
station at the breakwater to be Identi
fied. She had been oft the cape all day,
but was evidently afraid of the Hamil
ton and waited until darkness enabled'
her to slip by unobserved.
The La u rad a left Baltimore on Feb
ruary 27 for Philadelphia and when near
Cape Henry four boats were taken on
board to be used In landing the war ma
terial. Three days afterwards she met
the schooner Donna T. Briggs, of Ston
ington, Conn., and the steam lighter Jcn
nH., from New York, loaded with war
material which was transferred to the
Laurada twelve miles of Barnegat. The
vessel's prow was then turned toward the
West Indies. The expedition was In
charge of Gen. Carlos Roloff. the Insur
gent minister of war. There were forty
others on the Laurada when she left, and
In her holds were stored 7,000 rifles.1,700,000
rounds of ammunition, twenty-five tons
of stick dynamite and a large quantity
of food and medicine. The expedition
was fitted out by the Cuban junta for
Gen. Garcia and was landed on the prov
ince of Santiago De Cuba, where a large1
force Bad been left to meet and convey
the supplies to the headquarters of the
army in the interior.
Among those on hoard the Laurada is
Mrs. Hughes, the wife of the commander.
Two detectives are also said to he on
board. having been sent from New York,
and who are said to have kept a daily log
of the vessel’s movements. They are
said to have gone In the guls? of firemen.
TO BUILD A COTTON MILL.
Fall River, Mass., March 27.—Joseph
McCreery. a well known mill man, after
more than a year’s correspondence and
frequent personal interviews with Chaun
cey M. Depew, Seward Webb, H. McKayi
Twombly and H Walter Webb, has now
completed plans for a cotb.n mill to be
built at Depew, N. Y., about fifteen mil, s
from Buffalo. Two of the gentlemen
named will undoubttdly become directors
In the new corporation. The proposed
mill will be one-story in height. The
floor space will be 1S5 feet wide and 66SS
feet long. It3 capacity will be 40,000
spindles and the mill will be equipped
with 1.280 Kilburn and Lincoln print
cloth looms. The proximity to Niagara
Falls has I d to the expt elation that elec
tric power may be used, but the system
Is not yet so far developed as to make
this an absolute certainty.
TO THE HIGHER COURT.
New York, March 27.—The appeal on
behalf of the federal government from
the decision of Judge Wheeler In regard
to the application for an Injunction to re
strain the Joint Traffic association! from
operating under its agrt. mert was dis
missed last week by Judges La combe
and Wallace in the United States court
of appeals of this city, has been carried
to the United States supreme court.
HOOK FOR MODIFICATION.
Atlanta, Ga., March 27.—The two rail
way tratilc associations with headquar
ters here, are conducting their business
as usual. No member of either has given
any intimation of withdrawing because
of the supreme court’s decision. They
think that when the Joint Traffic asso
ciation's case Is heard, there may be
some modification of the court’s ruling.
ORGANIZATION COMPLETED
Jefferson Conclave, No. 21, Regents of
the White Shield, Closes Its Charter
With Forty Members.
Jefferson Conclave, Regents of the
White Shield, held an enthusiastic meet
ing last night in the Pythian hall In Bes
semer.
The charter was (closed with forty
names on the roll and seventeen n»w
nu mbers Initialed.
The office of regent adjutant, which
was left vacant at the previous meeting,
was filled by the election of J. D. Reed.
The following appointive officers were
announced:
First Videt of the Spear—J. S. Perry
man.
Second Vldet of the Spear—Milton
Ragsdale.
First Videt of the Lance—Dan Ma
lone.
Second Videt of the Lance—Archie Da
vidson.
Inside Sentinel—John C. Meeks.
Outside Sentinel—H. O. Hardin.
THE CANADIAN CUT
To Be Met by Chicago Roads—Wholesale
Cut on Eggs.
Chicago, March 27.—The first oipen, flat
cut rate since the anti-association de
cision of the supreme court of the United
States was made today by the Missouri
Pacific railroad. It made & rate of 3."Va
cents on eggs on car lots from all Kansas
points to St. Louis, subject to the Mis
souri river minimums. This is a pro
portional rate on through business east
of the western trunk line terminal and
to points east thereof. The tariff rate is
from 45 to 75 cents per 100 pounds. It isf
understood the western lines will pub
lish an equalizing tariff as soon as the
Missouri Pacific’s rate, which is effec
tive next Monday, is made known. Th,1
effect of this cut will be to send 300,000
cases of eggs for storage from Chicago
■houses to cities east of Pittsburg and
Buffalo. The cause of this cut is the
withdrawal of roads from the freight as
sociations and the effect will be to de
moralize the whole western freight sit
uation next we -k.
Chicago roads have secured from the
interstate commerce commission the sus
pension of the long and short haul clauset
of the act so far as passenger business
from Canadian points to the Kootenai
gold fields of British Columbia is con
cerned, because the Canadian Pacific
road put into effect reduction of $4 to $8
from points in eastern Canada to the
gold fields. This suspension means that
the Canadian cut will now be met via
Chicago._
DISTINGUISHED GATHERING.
Gridiron Club Gives a Grand Presidential
Dinner—Some of Those Present.
Washington, D. C., March 27.—The
presidential dinner of the Gridiron club
at the Arlington tonight was attended
by the president of the United States
and a majority of his cabinet, two or
three ambassadors and ambassadors-to
be; Justices of the supreme court, sena
tors, representatives and othe r distin
guish d guests, covers beint? laid for 130,
including the forty hosts, the Washing
ton correspondents, who form the regu
lar membeiship of the club. Secretaries
Gage, Long, Alger and Wilson and At
torney General McKenna represented the
cabinet.
Speaker Reed beamed upon a fair as
sortment of tariff debaters from the
house, including Representatives Dalzell,
Strode, Henderson, etc., Senators Aldrich,
Hanna, SpoAner, Burrows, Mitchell and
Carter in pant represented the upper
house. Justice Peckham spoke for the
supreme court. The German ambassa
dor, Baron Thielman, and his first secre
tary of legation, and Minister Mendonca,
•of Brazil, were among the distinguished
members of the diplomatic corps. Mr.
John Hay, United States ambassador to
England, was present. Invited Journal
ists from a distance included Mr. Mil
ton A. MoRae, of Cincinnati, and Mr.
Charles Emory Smith, of Philadelphia.
The decorations of the beautiful ban
queting hall surpassed anything before
•ttMiipted and the music and decorous
wit which enlivened the dinner made the
affair (jfflte .memorable even among the
many msnjfcrable dinners glwn by tho
club. .. .„ ..
THE CONTRACT SIGNED
And This Afternoon Will See the
Removal
OF CIT\f JAIL INMATES
v -
To the MineO* Coalburg—The Arrangements
Were^ .de Yesterday and the Pris
•? ers Are Broken Hearted,
This *jjf ertioon all of the Inmates of tho
city ;^7 on with sentences aggregating'
60 iluy* or over will be sent to Coalburg
to complete their terms of punishment,
and the city will receive $5 per month
for each one. Certain other prisoners
with less than 60 days to work out will be
sent out also, at the dbor.tion of Warden
Garner, who has been delegated the
"distributing agent.”
Mr. J. W. Castleman, the agent of the
S oss Iron and Steel company, met the
representatives of the city yesterday at
3 o’clock, and the contracts were signed
by both sides. The company b.-gins this
afternoon to remove the prisoners, and
between forty and fifty will leave at 3
o'clock over the Southern railroad. The
exact number ha.- not been decided upon
and will not be known until Clerk Sani
M. Mingea completes the list tills morn
ing.
Last night Mr. G. W. Shlrling, the
warden of the Coalburg prisons, rude
up to police headquarters and notified
Warden (Garner to have the transports
ready this afternoon, as he would call
for them, with six good trusty guards,
at 3 o'clock.
All day yesterday the sole topic of dis
cus ion by tlie prisoners was the impend
ing rem .val of a vast majority of th in to
the mines. They were disheartened, and
sullenly went about their labors, espe
cially the women and the men with long
terms.
Nea.rly all of the men and women
caught in the dance hall raid on Twenty
fourth street, near Avenue 13. last Fri
day night are included in the long list
of those to be taken away this afternoon.
W. O. Martin, the young man in the
now celebrated Len.ighan-Martin case,
will serve the balance of his time, about
ten months, in the CTalburg mines. All
of the females and boys will be sent out,
too.
The prisoners have heretofore worked
most faithfully on their fines and had
very few complaints to make. They nev
er seemed to consider themselves as In a.
very bad position and were generally
light-hearted and gay. Al! this has now
changed, and the feelings of the more
intelligent arc aptly portrayed in the fol
lowing verse handed the State Herald
representative last night by one of the
unfortunate prisoners as he bade him
good-bye before preparing for his remov
al to th: mines:
All! the flowers have lost their fragrance,
The spring breeze is damp and chill,
The bees are naught but gluttons.
And harsh the low song birds thrill;
For the mighty force of nature,
Of earth, of heaven, of sea
Have not a cheer for this prisoners' ear,
So what arc they all to me? I
BANGOR,
Disappointed Bridegroom Held to the
Grand Jury on a Charge of
Grand Larceny.
Bangor, Ala., March 27.—(Special Cor
respondence.)—Last night end' d the pre
liminary trial of Met Whaley and his
son, Will, charged with maliciously de
stroying property belonging to Tom But
ler, a farmer living near here. Much in
terest has been manifested, owing much,
perhaps, to the sensational feature of
the case. Several weeks since Mr. Wha
ley wss to have married the pretty 16
year-old daughter of Mr. Butler, the
failure of which is said to be the cause
of the trouble. The parents of the young
lady heard some rumors against Mr.
Whaley’s character, which led to the
breaking up. This naturally somewhat
disconcerted the would-be bridegroom,
who had made extensive preparations for
the wedding. Mr. Whaley wrote Miss
Butler some letters threatening to force
her to marry him. About this time tha
Butlers moved. On sending back the
next day after some of their things, they
found that fire had partially destroyed
their household furniture. Pome clothes
and a gold watch that Mr. Whaley had
given Miss Butler was missing. Tho
watch was found In Mr. Whaley’s pos
session. This, with the threats contained
In his letters convicted him.' Will Wha
ley was set at liberty. Met Whaley
has not yet succeeded in making bond
for $500. Mr. Whaley is a widower, his
wife having died about three months
since.
PERSONAL
T. B. Morton, of Fayette, was in the
city yesterday.
M. D. Kirk, of Philadelphia, Is regis
tered at the Metropolitan.
M. H. Jackson, of Sylacauga, Is spend
ing a few days In the city.
Mrs. D. M. Dickson, of Montgomery,
spent yesterday In Birmingham.
K. Morrison, of Montgomery, registered
last night at the Metropolitan.
J. Purcey, of Rlvereide, Ala., is in the
city a guest of the Metropolitan.
Sam Swope, the general chief clerk of
the Gelder’s Hotel in Atlanta, is at the
Metropolitan Hotel.
IMr. J. W. Sargent, of Jasper, and Edit
or Henry C. West, of the Oakman News,
were in the city yesterday on business.
Misses Ella Beach Yaw and Georglella
Lay will be the guest of Mr. It. S. Munger
at Five Points. They will arrive Tues
day noon.
FIRE SALE—About $10,000 In these
goods left that have not been touched
by fire or water and are going at most
any price. T. C. King, 202G First avenue.
TRADES COUNCIL
Regular meeting of Trades Council this
afternoon at 2:30 Foie's Hall, corner
Fourth avenue and Nineteenth street.
All delega tes are requested to be in their
seats promptly on time as business of
great importance will come before the
council. The del gates from the new
unions will be obligated. There are sev
eral grievances to come up in which
every affliiatel local union is Interested.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH BREWING ASSO
CIATION.
Recommends the use of the greatest of
ail tonics, "Malt Nutrtne,” and guaran
tees the merits claimed for It. For sola. *
by all druggists.BIRMINGHAM STATE HERALD.
VOLUME 23
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1897.
NUMBER 60
DULL, SPIRITLESS DEBATE
On the Arbitration Treaty by
Senators.
FINAL VOTE THIS WEEK
Is What Chairman Davis Hopes For—House
Still Wrestling With the Tariff—Re
lief for Flood Sufferers.
Washington. March 29.—The senate to
day spent about an hour In open session
and about two hours and a half In secrel
session discussing the arbitration treaty.
During the open session a remonstrance
against the treaty was presented from
the Monroe doctrine club of Philadelphia,
which characterizes it as “craftily con
trived to advance the interests of Eng
land and to coerce the United States into
the adoption of a reciprocity treaty with
Canada.”
Mr. Morgan presented his minority re
port in the Pacific railroad matter, which
was ordered printed.
Mr. Hoar reported from the judicial
committee a bill to prohibit the produc
tion in the District of Columbia and'
territories by kinetoscope or kindred de
vices, of pugilistic encounters and fights;
and it was placed on the calendar.
Mr. Caffery, from the committee on
commerce, reported a joint resolution ap
propriating $250,000 to be made imme
diately available, for the improvement
of the Mississippi from the head of the
passes to the mouth of the Ohio river.
The sum la to be taken out of the $2,500.
000 appropriated in the last river and
harbor bill. The preamble states that
the expenditure is necessary to relieve
the flood sufferers and to preserve the
lives and property of citizens and the
government works on the river. The
joint resolution was passed.
Mr. Allen, populist, of Nebraska, of
fered a resolution declaring that the con
gress is not possessed of constitutional
power to tmpose taxes on articles of dally
consumption by the people, for the ex
press and avowed purpose of Increasing
the private fortunes of any class of Its
citizens at the expense of the masses.
The resolution was laid on the table, Mr.
Allen stating that he desired to speak on
It tomorrow.
Mr. Pettigrew, silver, of South Dakota,
offered a resolution which was agreed to,
calling on the civil service commission
for a statement of the reasons why la
borers and workmen In the government
pointing office and In other departments
of the government are required to sub
mit themselves to competitive examina
tion, contrary to the provisions of the
civil service law.
Mr. Berry, democrat, of Arkansas, from
the committee on public lands, reported,
and the senate passed a bill to approve
a compromise and settlement between
the United States and the state of Ar
Kansas.
iThe bill approves and gives the full
effect of law to the compromise and set
tlement effected Feb. 23, 1S95, between
Secretaries Carlisle and Smith and Gov.
Clarke, of Arkansas, In regard to debts
due from Arkansas to the United States
and claims of the state Rgalnst the
United States. The agreement is to
the effect, that upon the payment by the
state of Arkansas to the United States
of the sum of $572 In money and the pay
ment of 160 $1,000 bonds of the state held
by the United States, the state to pay in
all the sum of $160,572, all claims and de
mands of the United States against the
state of Arkansas and all claims of the
state against the United States are to be
cancelled and finally settled.
Washington, March 29.—The debate on
the arbitration treaty in the senate to
day was dull and spiritless and of short
duration. Mr. Bacon, of Georgia, spoke
In favor of such amendments to the con
vention as should effectually eliminate
certain questions from arbitration under
the terms of the treaty. Ho thought it
was esesntlal to either adopt the amend
ment of Mr. Chilton, which leaves the
senate to act upon and approve any and
nil propositions proposed to be submitted
to arbitration or to eliminate the great
questions involving the Monroe docrlne
matters of foreign or domestic policy
and kindred subjects,# by name. Three
denied that djord Salisbury would be
Justified In rejecting the treaty, as was
reported In some of the press dispatcher
If It were so amend'd or If it were made
applicable to pecuniary claims only. die
would be stopped from such rejection by
his own altitude when p'.he treaty was be
ing negotiated, Inasmuch as he at that
time insisted that only such matters
should be Included.
Senator Turple, of Indiana, followed In
a brief speech In advocacy of the ratifi
cation of the treaty as it stood with the
committee amendments which have here
tofore been agreed to. These, he be
lieved, covered every point that has been
made kn criticism of the Instrument and
protected the United States completely.
The vote on the various Efmendments
that have been offered will be taken
Wednesday afternoon at 2 o’clock, and If
any amendments are subsequently offered
the vote on them Is to be taken the next
day at 4 o’clock. After that no amend
ments are to be received, and the debate
will be directed against the treaty as
amended by these votes. Chairman Davis
hopes to get the final vote tlris-week.
At 3:15. Immediately at the close of the
executive session, the senate adjourned
until tomorrow.
IN THE HOUSE.
Mr. Richardson, of Tennessee, objected
to the approval of the Journal of the
transactions of business when the house
was called to order today because of the
absence of a quorum. A call of the roll
sustained Mr. Richardson.
The second roll call showed the pretence
of a quorum, and at 11:10 the Journal
was approved and tihe reading of the
tariff Mil resumed. In making the an
nouncement of the vote. Speaker Reed
said:
“The ohalr hopes that members will
find it convenient with their private en
gagements to be present when the house
meets. We have already lost an hour
and ten minutes today because members
have not been attentive to their duties.’’
The rumored dissatisfaction among re
publican members of the house with the
schedules of the tariff bill was manifest
ed today when Messrs. McCall and Hov
eling, of Mflssnahusetts, protested
against rJi« high rates of duty Imposed
in the wool and cotton schedules.
The former said it was the woolen
schedule In the McRIn'ey bill that had
caused the reaction * go Inst the protec
tive system, resuming in the loss to the
republicans qf th-e house, the senate and
the presidency. *Jr. Lovering declaimed
that the manuCscturer* of Massachu
setts did not went tile high rates, but
asked for a tariff that would stand. They
believed in protection, but did not wank
to be smothered In Its embrace. The
at at emervs of these members were warm
ly applauded by the democrats.
The provisions of the bill were defended
by Messrs. Grosvenor, of Ohio; Russell,
of Connecticut, and Dingley, of Maine.
The former said the woolen schedule was
a reproduction of the McKinley law, un
der the operation of which that Industry
reached its highest degree of prosperity.
Mr. Russell called attention to the fact
th3t the committee on ways and means
had agreed to increase the duty on
combed cotton at the request of Mr. lev
ering. and he thought it came with bad
grace from the gentloman of Massachu
setts to criticise the high rates of duties.
Mr. Dingley said that no one, no: even
the critics themselves, believed that the
cotton Industry could thrive without the
duties carried in cihe bill. If the protec
tion afforded the wool manufacturers
was too high, it was because the duty on
wool had been placed too high for the
compensatory duty given the manufac
turer in the bill was exactly >:he same
as that In the McKinley and Wilson, bills.
Another outbreak was that by Mr.
Johnson, republican, of Indiana, who
wanted to amend some schedules which
he said were nut likely to be reached,
because of the Irrelevant debate. He so
persisted in talking despite the com
mands of the chairman (Mr. Sherman,
republican, of New York), that the com
mittee rose, and the chairman reported
that the committee did so in order that
tlhe rulsu of the house might be enforced.
The speaker syld that irrelevant debate
was inevitable, and that the basis of or
der was the recognition of the authority
of the presiding officer.
Mr. Johnson dieclailmod any Intention
of being unruly, and without specific ac
tion tlhe house went into committee again.
Members of the committee on ways and
moans, under the provision of the special
order, took control of the bill, and no
amendments were offered during the d3y,
exc.p: those that had been acted upon
by them. The changes were generally
of slight importance.
At 5:05 the committee rose, and the
house passed the joint resolution making
immediately available S250.000 for the
protection of the lower Mississippi, wi b
an amendment carrying some of the more
pressing items In the deficiency bill,
passed week before last. Th house, at
5:25, adjourned.
DEATH S RECORD.
The friends ami acquaintances of Mr.
and Mrs. J. A. Ming?, Jr., will be pain cl
'to learn of the ta,t-er's death, which oc
curred at Phoenix, Ariz., last Friday.
Mrs. Wiggs had been in Phoenix but ten
days, Mr. Wiggs having taken her there
in hope!? of her regaining her health,
which had been very poor for several
months. The body will be brought here
for burial, and the funeral notice will be
published Thursday or Friday next.
GEORGE EA FAYETTE MORRIS.
Mr. George Lafayette itorris, one of
Birmingham's oldest and most promi
nent citizens, passed away last night
at 9:10 o’clock after a lingering illness
of Bright’s disease of the kidneys, at
his residence on Twentieth street and
Quinlan avenue.
Mr. Morris was born forty-eight years
ago, In Spring Place, Ga„ but moved with
his parents to Dalton, when about 5
years old. His father is Judge F. B.
Morris, of Dalton.
Mr. George L. Morris oame to Alabama
In 1871 to assist In the construction of
the South and North Alabama railroad
(now the Louisville and Nashville), and
finally located in this city In 1882. He
afterwards built the Birmingham Min
eral railroad and a short line from
Blocton to Woodstock.
He received only a common school edu
cation In Dalton and attended the Bryant
and Stratton business college, of Pough
keepsie. N. Y. In 1885 he married Miss
Lizzie Trammell, daughter of Col. L, N.
Trammel, of Marietta, Ga. Besides his
wife, he leaves three children, Hellen,
aged 9; Lizzie, age 5, and George L. Jr.,
a baby about 13 months old.
During Ids lifetime Mr. Morris was
an extremely active business n;an with
unlimited energy. He organized the Mor
ris Mining company and was president
of the Morris Real Estate company, and
Consolidated Electric Light company,
He was vice-president of the Empire
Mining company and Birmingham Gas
company.
He was part owner of the Gadsden fur
naces and owned a half interest in the
Read house, a Chattanooga hotel.
He was a director in each of the fol
lowing companies: First National bank,
Avondale Land company, East Lake
Land company, Standard Coal company
and Birmingham Railway and Electric
company.
He was one of the receivers of the
Lady Ensley Coal, Iron and Railway
company and, at one time, was a part
owner of Blount Springs.
He was a prominent church member,
being a stewart in the First Methodist
church, and took an active interest in
all religious matters.
Mr. Morris was a cousin to Col. J. F. B.
Jackson with whom he was associated in
railroad contracting.
Notice of the funeral will be given to
day when relatives from Georgia are ex
pected.
MRS. MARIA 'T. HILL.
Sunday evening', at 8:15 o’clock, at the
residence of her' daughter, Mrs. T. B.
Wetmore. 817 Nine-tenth s.reet. at the
advanced age of 79 years, Mrs. Maria T.
'Hill passed from mortality to Immortal
ity. Deceased was a most estimable
Christian woman, lovable in disposition,
a devoted mother and true friend. Her
death came after a brief illness, having
kept her health excellently until three
weeks ago.
Mm. Hill was the grandmother of
Messrs. .1. H. Richmond, P. and Robert
S. Wetmore and Mrs. W. H. Thompson.
She was the widow of Gen. James T. HIM.
MRS. W. C. ADAMS.
At 9:30 o’clock Sunday morning, at the
family residence, 422 South Nineteenth
street, after a brief Illness of two weeks,
death claimed Mrs. Adams, the beloved
young wife of Mr. W. C. Adams. She
was but 28 years old, and a woman of rare
Christian virtues, a moat devoted and
loving wife and warm friend. A 2-year
old son and 3-month-old daughter mourn
with their grief-stricken father the early
dearth of their mother. Mr. Adams is a
well known and popular engineer of
the Douisville and Nashville railroad, and
delegations from the Brotherhood of Lo
comotive Engineers and Regents of the
White Shiefld attended the funeral yes
terday morning at Woodiawn.
JAJMES CURRBN FERGUSON.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Ferguson were called
upon Sunday to give up their infant son,
James Curren Fergusons he being called
to Join the vast array of infant angela
around the great white throne. The
babe, the idol of a now sorrowing home,
was Interred at Woodiawn yesterday
afterhoon.
EARN A HANDSOME BONUS.
New- London, Conn., March 29.—jThe
new gunboat Helena, sister to the Wil
mington, was given her official trial to
day over a twenty-seven mile course and
developed a speed of fifteen and eight
tenths knots. Her builders, the Newport
News Ship Building company, will earn
a bonus of 55,000.
FOUND THE MAN.
Frankfort, Ky., March 29.—Chairman
Tompkins, of the bribery Investigating
committee, has learned the Identity of
the man who says he was offered 820,000
with whicjl to get two votes for Hunter.
Summonses have .been served and the
Investigation will begin tomorrow.
TERRIBLE NEWS
Comes From Along the Mighty
Father of Waters.
BREAK AFTER BREAK IN LEVEES
Reported and Miles of Land Being Flooded—Des
peration Nerves the People to Action,
AND A STRONG FIGHT AT WEAK POINTS
Is Being Made—Greenville In Danger—Water Over
the Levee at New Orleans—Immense Flood From
the Northwest Hourly Expected at St. Louis
and the Worst Reports Are Yet to Come—
News From Helena—Texas *ind the
Indian Nation Experience Great
Floods—A Brief Resume.
Washington, r.Iarch 29.—Gen. Wilson,
chief of army engineers, received a. tel -
gram from Col. Gillespie, president of
the Mississippi river commission, dated
Vicksburg, yesterday, as follows:
"Gauges, along the river from Memphis
to Vicksburg give flood readings varying
from one and one-half to three feet above
any previously recorded readings. The
feeling everywhere i3 one cf great un
easiness and all the state levee boards
are battling the rising floods regardless
of cost. As yet no widely spread dam
ages have been reported, though several
breaks in levees above Greenville on both
banks have occurred. The levees are se
riously strained a Pall points.
"The commission will give all possible
aid by applying money balances to pro
tection of the works. Water rising slow
ly below Helena.”
WORSE THAN EVER BEFORE.
Ia the Report From Helena, Ark.—S?:rions
Breaks in the Levees.
New Orleans, March 29.—A special
from Helena, Ark., to the Daily Statfts,
says: The situation here today Is worse
than ever before. The liver rose two
and a half Inches during: the last twent, -
four hours and a stiff gale has been blow
ing almost without a moment's eessatl .n
since 8 o’clock lapt night. Mayor Frit
zen Issued a proclamation this morning
reciting the desperate nature of the con
ditions and calling upoi\<tlI able-bodied
men and boys to secure spades and put
themselves under the commander in
charge of the levees. The proclamation
met with hearty and prompt response
and at this moment 500 or COO men are
working on the levees, while many others
are on the hills, filling a lone line of wa
gons with dirt to be conveyed to the
weakest points. The levees are in good
condition considering the long siege, but
the heavy wind and the knowledge that
the river is to rise for several days longer
has nerved every man for the most des
perate fight ever seen in this country.
Capt. Nolty. of the rescue boat Titan,
reports another break. It is at Wood
Cottage landing, a mile and a half above
Knowlton's. The break was 600 feet
wide yesterday as the Titan passed there,
although it occurred late Saturday after
noon. This break will put all the coun
try not already inundated under water
down to Laconia and Capt. Nolty thinks
there is little doubt that that magnificent
body of land will also be deluged. The
break in the levee at Laconia is already
in a precarious condition.
Here at Helena hope is strong, but a
desperate fight is being made all along the
line. Today the entire front will be
raised from one to two feet, making the
levee from four to five feet higher than
It was when the flood comemmced. Many
proffers of assistance have been received,
but Helena feelu that she is able to take
care of herself and the stricken ones who
apply to her for shelter. More tent3 are
due here today, but mote refugees are
reaching here from every point of the
compass.
ABOVE VICKSBURG.
In the Yazoo Country the Wa'er Is
Rising and Flooding Everything.
Vicksburg, Miss., March 29.—A special
to the Dally State says: At 2 p. m. the
break i?outh of Swiftwater, near Wayside
Station, was 715 feat wide, at a varying
depth of six to eight feet. Levee officials
are not hopeful of dosing the break or
stopping it from widening. Water from
the break will go through Lake Lee into
Detr creek, Lakes LaFayet’.e and Wash
ington, Steel’s bayou and thence into
Yazoo river, out to the Mississippi river
again in front of Vicksburg. A large
portion of lower Washington county and
Sharkey, Issaquena and Sunflower ooun
ticn will be inundated. The Riverside
division of the Yazoo and Mississippi Val
ley railroad has been abandoned oti ac
count of this break. A steamer was sent
to Diamond Island last night to remove
150 Louisiana convicts to Illawara and
Pitcher’s Point, where levees are In a
dangerous condition.
A severe wind storm from the tost pre
vailed on the river last night, hurt the
Louisiana levees did not give way. The
steamer Bluff City, coming down from
Memphis, reports the levees at Luna acid
Brooks' mills, in Chicot county, Arkan
sas, as In more th/an a dangerous condi
tion.
A TEMPORARY FALL.
Quincy, 111., March 29.—Th- Mississippi
fell slightly today, and tonight the waiter
registers fourteen feet nine inches above
low water mark. It Is believed that the
fall is only temporary, and that there
will be another rise in a day or so.
AT 8T. LOUTS.
An Immense Flood Hourly Expected—
Raining and the River Rising.
Rt. Louts, Mo.. March 29.—The river is
rising steadily at this point, and la now
within about four feet of the danger
line. Reports received from upper river
points say an Immense flood la on its <
way flown, and may be expected Imre
within the next forty-eight hours. It is
laining this afternoon, and reports at
local weather bureaus stating that the
rain is general throughout Missouri, Ar
kansas ar.d Tennessee. [Reports from Al
ton, 111., at noon^ state that the river Is
about stationary, but a rise is threat
ened.
DISHEARTENING NEWS
From the River Front—Lake Lee Crev
asse Cannot Be Closed, and Given Up.
Jackson, Miss., March 29.—News from
flue Mississippi river today is disheart
ening, not only to the state adminis
tration, which has had 650 convicts hard
at work on the levees for a week or more,
but to the people of the great valley of
the Mississippi, who have made such a
heroic tight against the muddy waters,
spending their money freely and using
every means and energy in upbuilding
and strengthening the levees, but they
broke last night.
A special from Greenville to the Clar
ion-Ledger says: Th< crevasse at Lake
Lee Is no tv about 600 feet wide, and all
hopes of closing it have been abandoned.
The levees on Greenville front are still
holding, and a hard fight Is being made
to keep them in act. Weather conditions
are unfavorably however, and at this
hour the rain is pouring down in torrent a.
Lake Lee is seven miles south of Green
ville. on the Mississippi side, and the
water from this break is going to flood
thousands of acres of the finest farm
lands in the world. It will spread out
forty miles wide and cover t'he growing
Corn a depth of from one to five feet and
find Its way into Deer creek, and thence
into the Yazoo river, through which It
will finally get back Into the Mississippi
river, bur after devastating a strip of
country about seventy-five miles long.
Railroad Com mi.si so her Evans and
Worden McLaurin, who spent all last
week on the levees, hastened back h re
today on receiving news of Ihe break,
and will put the convicts at work until
danger of further break Is over.
TEXASllTfHif TOILS.
Trinity River Rose Forty Feet in a Day
—Two Deaths by Drowning—Rail
Travel Balked—Great Damage.
Dallas, Tex., March 29—An enormous
body of -water Is pouring- past Dallas to
night. Trinity river lYad risen fully
forty feet since yesterday morning and Is
rising now at the rate of a foot an hour,
although no rains have fallen since morn
ing.
John Jist and Miss Rub - Smith were
drowned in a branch of t'. Trinity near
Era, in Cook county, yesterday even
ing. The body of Miss Smith was found
today. Her father is an alderman of
Gainesville, Tex.
Railroad managers estimate the dam
age to property "of various lines In Texas
at not less than half a million dollars.
No trains can go south before tomorrow
on the Santa Pe, Central or the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas. Things are being
patched up so as to send trains north
ward and eastward tonight.
The general property loss In Texas from
the storm is estimated at from $1,500,000
to $2,000,000.
INDIAN TERRITORY.
All Large Streams Bank Full and Much
Damage to Farms—Tornado Visits
Chlcasaw Nation.
Denison, Tex., March 29.—This section
and Indian Territory has been visited
by a terrific rainfall for the past twen
ty-four hours. All large streams are
bank full of water and great damage
has been done to farming land. Every
stream and river In the Indian Territory
is reported as being out of its banks.
In the’eastern por',,u >f Chickasaw na
tion a tornado \'1' a houses, but no
casualties are rep -*•
AT PADUCAH, KV.
Paducah, Ky., March 29.—The river is
falling slowly at this place at the rate
of about a half inch per hour.
ALARMING SITUATION.
Memphis, Tenn., March 29.—The levee
broke this afternoon back of Perthshire,
Miss. The situation below here is re
ported alarming.
AT NEW ORLEANS.
The Water Is Running Over the Levee—
Algiers Appeals for Aid.
New Orleans, March 29.—The river has
Anally reached the top of the levees In
this city and this morning began running
over into Mandeville street, direotly in
front of the celebrated French market
building. It is not believed that any
damage will occur to property. An ur
gent request came from Algiers, -on the
right bank, this morning-, for help to
strengthen the levees there, weakened by
the high water and heavy winds of last
night. The river rose seven-tenths of
a foot in the past twenty-four hours and
Is now eight-tenths of a foot above the
sixteen foot mark, which is the danger
line.
-o
AWAITING THE MORROW.
When the Northwest Flood Is Expected
Many People and Cattle Rescued.
Cairo, III., March 29.—The river
one-tenth of a foot in the last twen/-S
four hours, but the severe winds thi* af
ternoon will not offset It all and b^j9o
morrow the flood from the north lt-**x
peeted to reach here and the rlve/J^ill
go higher. '
The government boat Minn <>nka
reached here today from Gold 1> /It. On
her trip she rescued 125 perse Je and
over 200 head of cattle.
RAINING AT NEW MADRID. MO.
New Madrid, Mo., March 29.—The river
is at a standstill today. The strong
wind blows the water against the levees
with considerable force, but it is be
lieved they will stand. Raining hard.
SOME DEMOCRATIC VOTES
To Be Cast for the Tariff Bill When the
Time Arrives.
Washington, March 29.—It is stated
on .he floor of the house that there will
be some democratic votes cast for the
tariff hill when it comes up for passage
Wednesday next. Among those reported
to be in its favor are three of the Lou
isiana delegation and one Texas mem
ber (Siayden of the Snn Antonio dis
trict). Explaining his position, Mr.
Siayden said today:
“The tariff is a business matter. X can
see no good reason why the people of mat
district ¥hould not share In its advan
tage®. They were greatly outraged by
the free raw material policy of the
Cleveland administration, which they
considered legislation in favor of the
manufacturers and against the produ
cers. In X8S4 the assessors in Texas col
lected taxes upon 4.691,(KB sheep; in 1896
upon 2.10.8S9. If this continues we will
soon he compelled to buy all our wool of
the clothes abroad, and In the event of
war our condition might become really
deplorable. I plainly promised the peo
p'e of my district that if they elected me
X would vote for free silver and against
free wool and hides, and I shall cast
both votes when the opportunity presents
itself.”
to handicapTmporters
Ways and Means Committee Will Try to
Have the Tariff Bill Effective
April 15.
Washington. March 29.—The republican
members of the ways and means com
mittee are considering the advisability
of offering an amendment to the tariff
bill. Immediately before the vote on the
measure Is taken in the house, of putting
the new law into effect on April 15. The
oommlttee are moved to this course by
the enormous Importations of foreign
goods which are rushed into this country
In order to secure the benefit of the ex
isting rates or duty. The committee
have sought the advice of the United
States district attorneys at certain of
the large commercial cities with a view
to determining if such an amendment as
Is proposed will have the effect of law
now standing the measure in which it is
to be incorporated Is still under consid
eration in congress.
The weight of opinion among those con
sulted, it is understood, favorable
to the legality of the propositions.
A RICH, RARE TREAT.
Dr. Shinn, tho Noted Lecturer Handles
the Subject, "The Russian Empire,”
in an Able Manner.
The lecture of Dr. Shinn last night at
the high school was one of the most In
structive and Interesting that has been
enjoyed in Birmingham in a long tlifie.
The subject, “The Russian Empire," an
account of (he mystery with which It is
shrouded to most people, is attractive,
but as treated by Dr. Shinn it becomes
one of absorbing interest. It would be
impossible to convey.to the readers an
adequate idea of the scope of the lecture,
or of the absorbing Interest with which
the eloquent lecturer was followed from
beginning to end.
Yesterday morning Dr. Shinn gave the
high school students a most interesting
and appropriate address, and this morn
ing again at 9 o’clock he will give the
high school the story of Peter the Great.
Tonight at the same place at S o’clock
Dr. Shinn will deliver his great lecture
on “Tolstoi,” and the people of Birming
ham are requested to avail themselves
of this opportunity to hear him. It is
expected that the assembly hall of the
high school will be crowded tonight to
hear one of the most instructive and elo
quent lecturers In the south. The ad
mission price is only 35 cents, pupils and
teachers 15 cents. The lecture Is given
for the benefit of the public library.
THE TRADES COUNCIL
At a Regular Meeting Sunday the Ac
tions of the City Wore Condemned—
Labor Day to Be Celebrated.
The Trades’ Council held a regular
meeting Sunday afternoon In the hall on
Fourth avenue and Nineteenth street.
An effort was made to drop the investi
gation In the Stanley-Harkins matter,
but upon a vote to discharge tihe special
committee apolrated it was lost by a ma
jority of two.
Mr. J. J. Fagin resigned as a member
of the board of trustees, and Mr. W. K.
JIcAdory was elected in his place.
A motion was made to notify all the
unions in the city of the actions of a lo
cal merchant In refusing to recognize the
clerks' union.
A motion prevailed 'to appoint a eomtt
■t^e to visit the merchants and request
them to employ only union clerks.
It was decided to have an open meet
ing every fourth Sunday, In which public
speakers will participate.
A committee of seven, with Mr. .Acton
as oha'irman, was appointed to arrange
for the Labor Day celebration.
The following resolution anetrt the
leasing of the city prisoners was read
and adopted:
•'Resolved, That 1t has come to the 'no
tice of the Trades’ Council that the mayor
and board ef aldermen of Birmingham,
Ala., have leased their oonviots to the
gloss Iron, and Steel company, and that
wo denounce their action."
The council then adjourned. t
WAR AGAINST THE POWERS
Vassos Is Said to Have De
* dared.
CHEERS FROM IRISHMEN
In the House of Commons on Hearing of Greek
Victories—Constantine's Triumphal
Tour—Indemnity Offered.
I>ond’ n, Afarch 29.—In the housa of
commons today the Rt. Hon. George
Curzon, under foreign secretary, road
a number of telegrams from the admiral
commanding the British warships In Cre
tan waters. The admirals wired that the
Cretan Insurgents having refused to per
mit supplies of food to be sent to the
Turkish force at Alalaxo, an ultimatum
was s-.-.nt to them by t'h - foreign admir
als Informing the Insurgents that the
supplies must be allowed to go to the
Turks, otherwise the foreign warships
and troops would resort to force to com
pel obedience to their demands. In :he
meantime, the admiral added, the insur
gents captured the Turkish .block house
at La Lava. (Cheers from the Irish
benches).
The foreign admirals, the telegrams
stated, then decided that it was neces
sary to drive the Insurgents out of the
block house, and, accordingly, the war
ships opened fire upon them. The firing
lasted six minutes, at the end of which
time the lnsurgen s evacuated the block
house, but not before they had looted It
and burned it. (Renewed Irish cheers).
Mr. Curzon. continued his reading after
the cheers had subsided. The British
admiral wir'd that owing to repeated at
tacks on the part of the Insurgents the
fjreign admirals decided to treat them
as enemies (cries of shame), and to d -
mand more troops from he powers In or
der to k ep them in subjection.
Col. Vestsos, commanding the Greek
troops In Crete, rooelved warning from
the admirals to this effect, and repiltd to
It by ordering the capture of he bl ick
house at Malaxa, and followed up bis suc
cess by attacking and capturing the
earth-work fort at Suda. Col. Vasses,
the admiral wired, bad practically de
clared war against the powers.
CROWN PRIRNCE CONSTANTINE
Received \\ Ith Cheers and Manifestation
of Joy at Larissa.
Athens, March 29.—Crown Prince Con
stantine and his party have arrived at
Larissa, where the prince will make his
headquarters. They traveled by rail
from Volo without mishap and were ev
erywhere along the route received with
much enthusiasm. The whole garrison
at Larissa were under arms to receive
their commander. Crowds had assem
bled in the flog bedecked streets to wel
come the crown prince, and he was giveni
an ovation as he proceeded from the rail
way station to the headquarters that had
already been picpared for his reception.
'Die enthusiasm of the troops and the
populace was unparalleled.
WILL OFFER INDEMNITY
Athens. March 29.—The Greek gov
ernment has undertaken to indemnify the
owners of the steamer Hcralkion. which
was boarded at the Piraeus Saturday by
an armed crowd cf Greeks and Cretans,
who jettisoned her entire cargo of pro
visions destined for the use of the Turk
ish and British forces in Crete.
FOREIGN NATIONS.
Invited to Participate in the Great Mon
ument Ceremonies.
■Washington, March 29.^-Sceretary
Sherman has sent the following cable
gram to our ministers abroad who are'
accredited to nations possessing navies:
“The grand municipal inaugural com
mittee has requested the president to
officially invite the maritime nations to
send warships to participate in the cere
monies on April 27 next when the Grant
Monument association will formally de
liver to the city of New Yol k the tomb of
Gen. Grant, erected by voluntary sub
scriptions at Riverside park. It will be
gratifying to this government it this
courteous invitation could be accepted.
(Signed.) "John Sherman."
RIVERA WILU^ThOT,
Drumhead Court-Martial Will Decide His
Fate—Geo. Velasco Shows a Different
Feeling to That of Weyler.
'Havana, (March 29.—It 1s reported that
Bermudez, the rebel leader, Is an Invalid,
the result of wounds he received In bat
tle. Perclo Delgado la said to be suffer
ing from consumption caused by wounds.
It Is stated here that Ruls Rivera was
taken before Gen. Velasco. The latter
told him that as a man he regretted his
wounding and capture.
Gen. Rivera replied that he was proud
to shake the hand of so valorous a Span
ish general.
The Villa Vislosa regiment has routed
the rebels under Castillo and Junn Del
gado, near Santiago de Das Vegas, prov
ince of iHavuna. Twenty-seven rebels
were killed and two captured. Seven of
the troops were wounded.
"WIIDD OERTAINBY BtE SHOT.
Dondon, March 29.—A dlspatoh re
ceived here from Havana, In reporting
the capture of Gen. Ruls Rivera, the In
surgent leader, and his chief of staff,
states that both of the prisoners will be
tried by a drumhead oourt-mai tlal, which
means that they will certainly be shot.
TREASURY STATISTICS._
"Washington, (March 29.—The comp
troller of the currency has declared a sec
ond dividend of 10 per cent, to the cred
itors of the Chattahoochee National
bank, of Cdlumbus, Ga.
The issue of standard silver dollars
from the mints and treasury office for
Che week ending March 27, was 2401,900,
and for the corresponding period last
year was $339,889. The shipment of frac
tional coin from (March lto 27 aggregated
$679,979.
VE9SED AND CARGO DOST.
Cape Charles, Va., March 29.—Tho
sell wrier, Capt. Pierce, with phosphate
rock, from Oharheston, 8. C., for Phila
delphia. sprung n leak about thlrty-flva
miles off Hog Bland, Saturday after
noon, and went down. The captain and
crew of five men were picked up by a flsh
tug umd brought to Hog Islund. The ves
sel and cargo arc a total loss.